灵格风汉语教材


Linguaphone Oriental Language Courses.


General Editor：Sir E.Denison Ross, C.I.E.,Ph.D.,Director, School of Oriental Studies, University of London.

Phonetic Editor：A.Lloyd james, M.A.,Reader in Phonetics, School of Oriental Studies, University of London.


CHINESE
by
J.Percy Bruce,M.A.,D.Lit.,Professor of Chinese, School of Oriental Studies, University of London.

E.Dora Edwards,M.A.,Lecturer in Chinese, School of Oriental Studies, University of London.

C.C.Shu,Lecturer in Chinese, School of Oriental Studies, Univereity of London.

（Spoken by C.C.Shu,Lecturer in Chinese, School of Oriental Studies, University of London.）

With Phonetic Transcription in the Alphabet of the International Phonetic Association.


VOL.II
First Edition.

THE LINGUAPHONE INSTITUTE,
24 - 27, High Holborn, London, W.C.1,
England.



Printed in Great Britain by
The Linguaphone Institute,
24 - 27, High Holborn, London, W.C.I.



VOL.II
THE CHINESE TEXT.



CONTENTS.
Directions to the Student
Chinese Sounds I
Chinese Sounds II
Chinese Text of Lessons 1 — 30



Directions to the Student

[NOTE.—The Chinese Text of Chinese Sounds, Parts I and II, is given for reference only, and is not intended to be learned. It will be useful also in the case of a student going to a part of the country where a somewhat different form of Mandarin is spoken, in which case a Chinese teacher can be asked to read the text from the Chinese character, and the student can note the variations in pronunciation.]

1. When Lesson I has been mastered orally turn to the Chinese Text. Follow the directions given in the following paragraphs and in the Notes, learning to recognize and write the assigned Radicals firsthand then the characters in the Vocabulary.

NOTE.—The Chinese Characters will be found much less difficult to learn if the order here suggested is followed. The oral work should always be a lesson ahead of the written.

2. With regard to the recognition of characters many students find what is called the analytic method helpful；i. e., by analyzing any given character into its component elements, and nothing its historical developments, the meaning of the character is impressed The Romanized spelling in the Chinese Vocabularies and in the Appendices is according to Wade's system as used in most Dictionaries. upon the memory. Others, however, find this only an additional burden upon the memory, and prefer to learn the characters as they are without regard to their component parts.

3. Those to whom the analytic method appeals will find the archaic forms with the Remarks in the Table of Radicals, Appendix I, and the analysis of the characters in Lessons1～4given in Appendix II, helpful.

4. From LeSvSon5onwards only the numbers of those Radicals which have not previous ly occurred are given. In the case of those which he has already learned it will be good practice for the student to recognise them for himself in their new combinations.

5. The Phonetics will be easily found in Sootill*s Pocket Dictionary. Look up the character under its Romanized Spelling in Part II among the small characters. The number given is the number of the Phonetic in Part I. For further analysis and archaic forms see Wilder&Ingram's Analysis of Chinese Characters. Another Pocket Dictionary which will be found useful and complementary to Soothill's is Fenn's Five Thousand Dictionary in which the Radical of each character is given.

6. With a view to the use of dictionaries later the student will do well to learn to discover the Radical of a given character for himself. In doing so, although absolute corusistency cannot be assured, the following general rules will be helpful：—

（1）Nearly all characters, when not Radicals themselves, are composed of two parts, either side by side or one above the other.

（2）When the two parts are side by side the Radical is generally on the left, except Nos.18,19,59,67,76,79,163, which are generally on the right.

（3）When one part of the character is above the other the lower part is generally the Radical, except Nos.8, 14,40,87, 116, 118, 122,140, which are usually above.

7. In the writing of characters two things are important viz： their form and the order in which the strokes forming them are written.

8. With regard to form the student will find it most satisfactory to trace with pencil or ordinary pen the characters as given in the Radical Table（Appendix I）and in the Vocabularies. In tracing each character he need not trouble himself about the difference in the thickness and thinness of the strokes, which can only be reproduced with the brush-pen and is not essential, especially in these days when every up-to-date Chinese writes with a fountain pen or pencil. The points which are essential to a well-formed character arc the correct balance of the several parts and the proper direction of the strokes.

9. Chinese authorities give the character yung, eternal as furnishing the best example of the elementary strokes used in writing. These strikes are：— 1, the clot on the top（R.3 ）；2 , the horizontal stroke（R.1 ）；3, the perpendicular stroke xvith a hook at the bottom（R.6）；4, on the left hand side, a downward stroke to the left（R.4）；with which is joined another horizontal；5, on the right- hand side, a downward stroke to the right, above which is another stroke to the left. Other strokes, or modifications of the above are：— 6, the（without the hook）either tapering or thickened at the bottom；perpendicular（R.2）and7, the spike a tapering slant stroke written upwards from left to right. Note carefully the difference between5and7from the point of view of the direction of the stroke. Further interesting particulars and their manner of writing will be found in a small but useful book by F. W. Bailer entitled the A. B. C. of Chinese Writing ya. nd a more exhaustive treatment in Hovu to write Chinese, by J. Dyer Ball.

【此处需“永”字截图】


10. It may seem that the order in which the strokes of a character are written is unimportant. That is not the case. Apart from the fact that the order of writing will imperceptibly affect the direction of the strokes, the most elementary knowledge of Psychology will teach us that to learn to write the strokes in a certain order will prove a very material aid to memory, and if they are always written in the same order it may as well be the correct order.

This order is given in a parallel column in the two Tables of the Appendix. Two general rules will serve as a guide：—

（1）Top strokes, or the top part of the character, to be written before the bottom strokes, or bottom part of the character.

（2）Left-hand strokes, or left-hand part of the character, to be written before the bottom strokes, or bottom part of the character.

Other rules, supplementary to, or qualifying the above are：—

（3）The base line, if any, to be written last of all.

（4）Horizontals before perpendiculars.

（5）A surrounding square, with the exception of the base line, to be written first.

（6）Perpendiculars, when they have other elements on their two sides, are written first；when they pass through the rest of the character they are written last.

The student will notice examples of these rules as he writes the Radicals and characters in the Vocabularies.

11. When the student has learned both to recognize and write the characters in the Vocabulary he should write out the Exercise in character from the Transcription. By the time he has finished this he will find that the characters are fairly well fixed in his memory. His next and final step will be to write the exercise in character from the Translation.
