The Yellow Storm
风吹草动
（后十三段）


Chapter Fifteen

LAN THE EASTERN SUN had moved around among the secret service. In one day he had arrested twelve students and one teacher from the School of Railway Administration. What all these thirteen confessed was the same contact with Chungking. Their fate was the same-death.

The Headmaster of the Railway School was discharged. Lan the Eastern Sun became Acting Headmaster.

His greatest objective was to squeeze the grain of the students. Thirteen lives to accomplish for him this greatest of his ambitions! He was excited and pleased with himself. He was now a department head and a headmaster. He felt that he was indeed great, as great as the Japanese soldiers who had competed to slaughter and rape in Nanking.

He had spent two hours preparing a speech for his inauguration. He wrote it in the classic style. He knew that the Japanese liked the Chinese who wrote in the classic style.

But before he could read his speech Fat Chrysanthemum had already driven out the chief accountant who had been appointed by Eastern Sun and had herself taken the post. The key to that treasury that had been bought with thirteen lives was taken by Fat Chrysanthemum. Eastern Sun bit this fingernails until they bled. He wanted to order the servants of the School to bind her and take her home, but she had already drafted Meydee as her personal guard. Meydee’s title was Dean of the Girl Students. Eastern Sun dared not offend Meydee.

Up to the time of Rearl Harbor, Meydee had watched the Westerners and had been very successful. She not only spied on the Americans and the English, but had drawn the Germans, Italians, French, and Russians into her net. Her body had become international.

Because she was used to being with Westerners she entirely ignored the Chinese, she thought of Chinese men as impotent. To seek the second best she would make friends with the Japanese men. She had lost the Eastern woman’s quietude and shyness, and thought of herself as starting a now pattern.

Lan the Eastern Sun dared not offend Meydee nor did he dare punish Fat Chrysanthemum.

Rey Tang thought out carefully and dispassionately how to deal with these three.

When he had made up his mind he met Meydee casually and as if by accident.

Meydee now had quite a bit of leisure. All the Westerners in Peiping who should be in concentration camps were in concentration camps, and those who were not to be in prison had arm bands showing what country they came from. She needed no longer to cultivate them.

She was not interested in the work of the school but was only helping Fat Chrysanthemum. She went to the school in the afternoons only, to see if any students needed discipline, and whom she should frighten a time or two. She would then slip away from the school and go to the places of amusement to pass her time. Her mother had had a home but she had none where she could entertain her friends. When she was at leisure, however, she was welcome everywhere. No one dared to treat her coldly. The gambling houses, the opium dens, the brothels, the theaters, and the cinemas all welcomed her. Difficulties could be solved easily if one had her as a friend.

On this day Meydee had made up to be unusually beautiful. To dress herself up had become her greatest comfort and enjoyment. She knew that she was a flower that would soon fade and that she must use great care in dressing and make-up, and she was afraid each morning to look in the mirror. Without the red lips and the penciled eyebrows it seemed she did not know herself.

Her lips and cheeks were painted red and her eyebrows like bamboo leaves. Although there was no wind she had a white gauze scarf over her hair. Her red dress of thin light wool fitted her closely, and showed clearly her breasts and hips. Hanging from her shoulders was a short Persian lamb coat which showed her plump and beautiful legs.

The gauze on her head, her red gown, and her fur coat had all been bought with her body. She could not remember which had been given her by which White Russian, and which she had accepted from a French merchant. She felt only that she should be proud of herself, that in this Peiping that lacked everything, she still could dress so well.

Rey Tang followed Meydee from a short distance. He was troubled in his heart. That girl who looked like a bird of prey had been his boyhood love and an angel. He looked at her back. His warm young blood rose like a tide in his mind.

Would he want to keep company with a bird of prey? Nonsense. The tide of his hot blood receded. He must control himself. He was not a young man of peaceful years. He must be cold and make himself as hard and cold as a piece of ice. He straightened his back to show that he was firm and hard.

At the front gate of the North Sea Park he pushed forward and bought the entrance tickets. “Meydee, do you remember me?” he asked with a slight smile on his face. He was afraid that be cause his clothes were so poor Meydee might not be willing to recognize him. But Meydee at once recognized him and smiled almost naturally. “Oh, you, Old Three.”

In her smile Old Three suddenly saw the Meydee of before the war, as sometimes in the mirror he could see himself of eight or ten years ago.

He looked at her again. No, she did not look like the Meydee of before the war, but he still hoped to see that Meydee. That was the Meydee he had loved-loved in his dreams.

He forced himself to smile and went with her into the park. He stepped forward and walked shoulder to shoulder with her. Quite naturally she gave him her arm.

When he touched her arm Rey Tang felt a lightness and exhilaration. Immediately he gave himself a warning, "Be careful, be careful.” He moved closer to her but his heart lost that lightness and exhilaration. He was arm in arm with a prostitute, a spy, an enemy. If he let himself be moved by her he was a lost dog.

She leaned on him. “Where have you been amusing yourself these last few years?” she asked in a casual manner as though it did not matter whether she asked or not.

He looked at her face again and in his heart he spat. If he had the slightest desire to love her it would be low and shameful. He was a good Son of Han who had traveled to the south and to the north; he should regard as valuable his dignity as a Son of Han. Who, me? Don’t you know?” He must show some of his cunning; he was an underground worker dealing with a member of the secret service.

“I really don’t know.”

“What does it matter whether you know or don’t know?” he said in a hard voice.

After walking a few steps she suddenly laughed. “Have you a girl?”

Rey Tang could not guess whether she was teasing him or whether she was laughing at herself. “No, I’m always thinking of you.”

“That’s hard to believe.” She smiled again but immediately became silent.

Rey Tang thought that no matter how low she had fallen she was after all a human being. There was still some feeling which could not be changed.

There were not many people in the park. When they came close to a great old willow tree Meydee’s shoulder touched Rey Tang’s arm. They walked behind the tree. When they reached the back of the tree she embraced him.

Rey Tang looked down and saw her face, her eyebrows, eyes, and the red lips so brightly colored. It seemed as if he were not looking at a face but at a palette smeared with thick paints. He wanted to push her away, but her breasts and legs were against him-very soft and seductive.

She kissed him.

He could not help but hold her more closely. She was no longer soiled, nor low, nor dangerous. She was his once-beloved. Her face and body were fragrant.

Softly and slowly she said, “Old Three, I still love you, truly.”

Pretending to be touched Rey Tang hung his head.

“Now what? You can’t even talk.” She had changed again. She shifted the weight of her coat and walked away.

Rey Tang hurried after her. He could not let her go. She had kissed him and said that . she loved him, but he had to remember how much young blood there was on her hands. No, he could not let her go. He must be as hardhearted and ruthless as she.

Reaching her side he again took hold of her arm. “Ha! You still have the same disposition. At the slightest crossing of your will you change and become angry.”

“Of course,” she said with her mouth twisted. “Don’t be a fool. I don’t give my kisses for nothing.”

“I have nothing to give you but my love.” Old Three could hear that his words were empty and unconvincing.

“Oh, you are still the way you were years ago — ” Suddenly she refused to say any more.

“You — what about you?”

Meydee still said nothing but came closer to him. After walking a few more steps she lifted her face and looked at him. “Old Three, I will give you whatever you want. Really, I really love you.”

Old Three did not know how to answer her.

“Really, whatever you want I will give you,” she said again.

Old Three saw that to Meydee there was no difference between love and lust. He aroused her old feeling for him and she wanted to express that old love with lust. She was still the pure Meydee of the old days and at the same time she was a prostitute who sold her body. Old Three warned himself, “Forget that she is Meydee, forget that she is a prostitute, remember only that she is an agent of the Japanese secret service.”

They had reached the foot of the White Dagoba which seemed tall and slender in the thin Sunlight.

“Shall we go into the grottoes under the Dagoba?” she suggested without the slightest shame.

“Won’t it be cold there?” Rey Tang purposely pretended to be stupid.

“It is warm there in the winter and cool in the summer.” She began to walk fast.

When they first went in, the grotto was quite dark and Meydee held Rey Tang's hand. Her hand was so warm, Rey Tang began to breathe quickly. She was not a prostitute or a member of the secret police; she was his love.

They went slowly down several stairways and came to a little piece of level ground where there was a square stone table and four little stone stools. At the top of the cave was a hole through which came a little light.

Meydee sat on one of the small stone stools and Rey Tang sat beside her.

The light in the cave was weak and the red on her face and lips was less glaring. Rey Tang seemed to see the Meydee of the old.

“What are you thinking about, Old Three?” Meydee asked.

“I? I am not thinking about anything.”

“You?” She smiled at him. “Don’t lie to me. I know all about your business.”

Rey Tang glanced quickly in all directions to see if there were anyone hiding.

“Don’t be afraid. I am alone here. I can handle you alone.”

“What do you mean?”

“Don’t you understand? You see, we once loved each other.”

Rey Tang nodded.

“Good. We are now in the same business, but it is not necessary that — as the proverb says — ‘those in the same business are enemies.’”

“How are we in the same business?”

“You don’t need to play stupid and speechless before me. Speak out. Your life is in my hands. If I say for you to die you will immediately die.”

“Then why don’t you say it?” Rey Tang smiled.

“I have my plans.” Meydee also smiled.

“You want me to work with you. Is that it?”

“That’s about it. You give me your information. I will give you my love.”

“What will you give me?”

“Love, love.”

Rey Tang to carry the pretense took her hand. “Give me your love — give me at once.”

“At once? You haven’t accepted my terms.”

“First love me and I will promise everything.” He drew her toward the inner cave.

The cave became narrower and narrower, and darker and darker. Meydee began to be suspicious. “Won’t this place do? Why should we go further?”

Rey Tang was silent. Suddenly he seized her around the neck with both hands. She did not make another sound.

Rey Tang dragged the corpse to the innermost part of the cave. He wiped the sweat from his head, and then took Meydee’s badge and one of her rings and put them in his own pocket.

Standing there he called in a low voice, “Meydee,” and he seemed to hear her laughter, that laughter of many years ago.

He ran out quickly. Outside the cave the sunshine, although not very strong, made him shut his eyes. He opened his eyes and began to walk quickly away.

When he left the park and saw the people walking, and the carts and horses, he was almost frightened. A moment ago in that black cave... now sunshine, streets, people walking and the traffic. His hands that a moment ago had been so hard and powerful were now shaking.

He looked at the moat of the Forbidden City. He wanted to put his hands through the cracks in the ice to wash them. But he must go to find Fat Chrysanthemum. Hum! Another foul and stinking woman! His stomach turned. There was no other way, for this was his work and he must do it.

He waited in the neighborhood of the Lan house for Fat Chrysanthemum. When he lifted his head he could see the White Dagoba. It was so white in the blue heavens, so tall and beautiful.

“Second Sister-in-law,” Rey Tang seeing Chrysanthemum about to enter her gate ran over and called her.

Before Chrysanthemum had recognized Rey Tang’s appearance she had recognized his voice. The blood drained from her face. She stood still.

“Go, go inside,” Rey Tang commanded in a low voice.

Fat Chrysanthemum walked in hanging her head. Old Three followed her closely. When she got into the house she seemed very tired and threw her fat weight on the sofa. She had no regrets but much fear. She was afraid that Rey Tang had come to avenge Rey Feng. Except for her dealings with Rey Feng she did not feel that she had done anything that could be considered wrong. Her conduct of the past few years she thought to be according to the seasons and to have been of the right degrees.

Rey Tang took out Meydee’s badge and Ring and held them in his palm. “Do you know these?”

Chrysanthemum nodded.

“She is finished. She was the first. You will be the second.”

Chrysanthemum’s fat flesh was all numb. Instinctively she wanted to run away but she could not move. “Old Three, Old Three, I am not of the same group with Meydee. I don’t know about her affairs, 1 don’t know.”

“But you know what you have done.”

“I — I have never done anything bad.”

Rey Tang put the badge down and the ring, and raised up the hand that had just killed. He must give Fat Chrysanthemum something bitter to eat. Right and left he slapped that fat face hard.

She cried out. Rey Tang seized the hair that had been curled with money taken in exchange for people’s lives. “If you make any noise I will kill you at once.” The fat woman shut her mouth. Blood ran out of the corners. She had never been beaten but she now knew what pain was.

“Don’t strike me again, don’t.” She held her face with both of her hands. “What you want I will give you.”

Hearing this speech Old Three was even more angry. Her words were the same as Meydee’s, equally low and shameless.

“You are afraid of death?” Rey Tang asked her. “I can ask you for your life at any time and at any place.”

“Spare me, Old Three.”

“Listen — if you dare to squeeze one single catty of grain from the students I will send you to find Meydee. Do you understand?”

“I understand.”

“If Eastern Sun dares to kill another student I will hold you responsible.”

“His affairs — I — ”

“I have other means to deal with him. I am telling you that if you know and do not try to stop him, I will kill you first. Do you understand?”

“I understand.”

“There is a place in the school for a teacher of literature. You must tell Eastern Sun to invite Eldest Brother to the post. With Eldest Brother in the school I will know your every single action and those of Eastern Sun. Don’t waste your energies discussing with Eastern Sun how to catch me. If I am alive you two can live. If I am put in prison you will both die. I have many fellow workers in this city. They would avenge me. Do you understand?”

“I understand.”

“Here.” Rey Tang took out a small envelope. Inside was a cartridge. “Give this to Eastern Sun. Tell him I brought it. And here is this.” He threw Meydee’s ring into Chrysanthemum’s lap. “Give this to him also. If you do not listen to me, you will die the way Meydee died.” Old Three took up Meydee’s badge and went out.



Chapter Sixteen

THE MONK, Clear Moon, again took a message to Rey Shuan. “To go is dangerous. Not to go is also dangerous. I only hope that you will find new life since the old road has come to a dead end. In war one must take sides. To stand in the middle is perhaps worse than to be a traitor.”

When Rey Shuan read this letter that had no head or tail or signature he could not help smiling. He waited calmly for the document of invitation from the school. He decided that when it came he would go and teach even if it should become his execution ground.

There had been four years of war and this was the first time that he had felt decisive, and also happy. He was standing side by side with Old Three, and even if this should involve the whole family, and they should all die together, he would not retreat.

The invitation came. Lan the Eastern Sun’s signature and seal were on it. If this had happened in the past Rey Shuan would have felt the greatest shame and humiliation. He would rather have starved than call Eastern Sun “Headmaster.” But on this day he was elated.

The family, learning the good news, pushed forward to ask all about the new post. Rey Shuan told them only that he had a new job and that there was hope for grain. He did not say how he got the job or who was the headmaster of the school.

When Old Man Chi heard the good news he twisted his white eyebrows and nodded his head continuously, and smacked his lips. “Ai, the Old Heaven has eyes, the Old Heaven has eyes.”

Rey Shuan looked at his grandfather and felt that he was no longer on the borer line between Yin and Yang — between the shades and life — but that he was alive again. He did not know whether he should laugh or cry.

Fat Chrysanthemum hoped that she could with politeness and patience appease Rey Shuan so that he would understand that she still regarded him as her eldest brother, and would forget that matter of the Second. She hoped that the Chi family would become friendly with the Lan family, that Eastern Sun could still keep the position of headmaster in the school, and that she could still keep the key of the treasury.

She felt that her plan was entirely reasonable and righteous. When Rey Tang had slapped her, her first thought had been for revenge. She had told Eastern Sun to go at once and report, and have the gates of the city closed to catch Rey Tang, and then to have the whole Chi family put to death. The pain and insult to her fat face could only be washed clean by the blood of the Chi family.

But as soon as Eastern Sun saw the cartridge and Meydee’s ring he was so frightened that he wet his trousers. Eastern Sun’s success depended on two things: his own shamelessness and the tameness of the people of Peiping. Now as he looked at that cartridge he saw a man of Peiping who dared to risk his life. A white frost covered his green face, both his eyeballs rolled up. He saw danger and death and he was afraid of death.

He quickly shut the gate and had the door of his room and the windows bolted and locked. After he had closed the door and the windows tightly he put his trem fingers to his lips and cruelly bit his nails. His first thought was to ask the Japanese to protect him. Suppose a squad, or better still a company, of infantry were around his house he could probably lie on his high pillows without worry. But could that be done? If he should ask for protection and the Japanese sent only one or two members of the secret service — of what use would that be?

He thought it over and over and decided that the best way was: first, to ask for a few days’ sick leave and lock himself in his room; second, to think of a way to make a compromise with Rey Tang; third, if Rey Tang would not compromise he would think up a way to get to Japan. He could not always stay in Peiping waiting for a bullet.

Fat Chrysanthemum seeing that Eastern Sun was so frightened could only rub her face and think of delaying tactics. She must go to the Chi family. If she bought some gifts for the old and young they would surely be grateful to her, and perhaps in the course of the conversation she would get some real news about Old Three. Even if they were very careful and did not talk about Old Three she could at least watch their words and expressions and look through the crevices. Even if she saw nothing at all it would do no harm to restore “good relations between the two nations,” and after the restoration of relations she would gradually persuade them to co-operate with her.

She bought two or three gifts and took them herself to the Chi family. She thought herself both courageous and intelligent.

Entering the Little Sheep Fold she looked all around. Everything in the Little Sheep Fold was the same except that the walls and gates were older and shabbier and looked like the slums in the movies. She felt that she had been very intelligent to have escaped from this slum; otherwise she would have been no more than a flower stuck in a pile of dog’s dung.

Since the sunshine was warm Mrs.Tien Yiu was sitting on the threshold of her room enjoying the sun. The two children were in front of the steps. Little Niu Niu was so undernourished she seemed to have forgotten how to play and was standing idly watching her brother. Little Precious was also very thin but he could still jump about and play.

The two children saw Chrysanthemum first. They did not remember her very well. In their daily chatter they still spoke of their “fat aunt” but her appearance had gradually blurred in their little minds. Little Precious said only, “Yo!” and nothing else.

Mrs.Tien Yiu slowly opened her eyes and recognized Chrysanthemum at a glance. She stood up and said, “Little Precious, Niu Niu, come in, both of you.” Then taking the hands of the two children she went into her room. The old lady knew how to maintain good feeling in the four generations in the same house, but she could not tolerate a loose woman like Fat Chrysanthemum. Fat Chrysanthemum became angry. She had thought that the old lady would accept the face she offered.

No, she must not be angry. A diplomat could not afford to be angry, and she had come to restore diplomatic relations. She called, “Eldest Sister-in-law.” She knew that the sister-in-law was easier to deal with.

Yun Mei was in the kitchen and without looking out had already recognized Chrysanthemum by her voice. The color of her face changed immediately. She never wanted to offend anyone but she also made a clear distinction between right and wrong. Should she or should she not go out and greet that fat sister-in-law?

She also knew that “when the owl comes to the house it is not for nothing” applied to Fat Chrysanthemum, but what the business was she could not guess. She decided not to make any sound. If Fat Chrysanthemum had come to make trouble she would be greeting a shameless woman and at the same time getting herself involved in the trouble.

Old Man Chi heard that “Eldest Sister-in-law” and thinking that guests had come slowly opened the door of his room. When the old man saw Chrysanthemum he looked quickly at the sky as if to ask the Old Heavenly Grandfather for instructions as to how to deal with this woman.

“Grandfather, I have brought you a present.” Fat Chrysanthemum was determined to control her anger and display her diplomatic skill.

The old man’s bearded mouth moved several times without being able to say anything.

Fat Chrysanthemum started to go into the old man’s room. She held the gifts in front of her to attract his attention.

The old man stopped her. With a loud voice he said, “Roll!” Then his speech spurted like water from a pump, “Roll away! Get out! You have the face to come here and bring gifts to me. If I should accept your presents my ancestors could not lie quietly in their graves. Roll!”

At this moment Yun Mei came out of the kitchen. She was afraid the fat woman would say something that the old man could not endure. Standing in the door of the kitchen she said in a loud voice, “You haven’t gone yet? Go!”

Fat Chrysanthemum had no choice but to turn around. She first thought to throw the presents on the ground as an insult, but she hesitated and then held them more tightly.

Yun Mei came quickly over and said to the grandfather, “Grandfather, you’d better rest a bit.”

The old man still had much he wanted to say, but he was so angry and confused he said not a word.

When Rey Shuan came home and heard the report from the family he said to himself, “Not bad, the Chi family have bones after all.”



Chapter Seventeen

EASTERN SUN’S SICK LEAVE was extended. When he helped the Japanese to create terrorism, he had never thought what terrorism itself was like. He had never thought about how the young boys and girls trembled when they were arrested, or how broken were their parents’ hearts. He knew only that he had position and wealth, and that knowledge made him happy.

But now he knew also that Rey Tang had brought him a cartridge. He dared not touch the cartridge. He thought that if he should touch it, it would explode. It was so shiny and so cold, always looking at him, following him like an eyeball which could move.

He did not think of retribution for he had never admitted to himself that he had any guilt, that he had committed any crime. He was now looking directly at death. He did not admit his crimes nor could he think of redemption. Redemption such as religious people believe in could give hope, but he had no hope.

He was afraid, afraid. Gnawing his fingernails he screamed and rushed to his bed. He covered his head with the bedclothes. He held his breath for a long time and hid, sweating. He dared not raise the bedclothes. He felt that death was waiting for him outside his quilts.

Only when Fat Chrysanthemum came home did he dare push aside the bedding and sit up. He called her over and frenziedly embraced her. He bit her fat arm savagely. She was his fat woman, before he died he must bite her, grind her under his feet, so would he get his money’s worth.

After he had bitten her he looked around the room, at the things in the room, and counted how much money he had. He shouted, “I mustn’t die, I mustn’t die.”

Without waiting to put on his shoes he went for pencil and paper to list all the furniture, clothes, teapots, and rice bowls he had. He even listed the brooms and the feather dusters. The higher the numbers he put down the more elated he became and the more frightened. If he should die soon to whom would he leave all these things? No, he would not leave them to Fat Chrysanthemum. She had married him only because of his money and position; he would not leave her his goods.

He again embraced her and putting his mouth against her face and said, “You must die with me, with me.” Yes, he must have a companion to lie with him in the coffin, or after death he would be afraid day and night.

Fat Chrysanthemum drew away from him. He ground his teeth. Ha! She was after all one of the Chi family! She would probably return to the Chi family and marry Rey Tang.

He pled with Chrysanthemum not to leave him again. At the same time he discussed with her how he could escape from Peiping.

Yes, he must escape from Peiping. Once he was out of Peiping Rey Tang would not be able to find him. There was under heaven only one Rey Tang. Once he got somewhere else he could again wear the big purple and the big red. Except for Rey Tang he had no enemies.

But if he should escape how would he manage to take all his things with him? Those tables and stools were far from being as important as gold and silver, but, after all, they were his; and whether they were of wood or of porcelain they all had his blood in them. But if he took too much he would certainly be stopped by the Japanese.

In the night if he heard a report — perhaps a rickshaw tire bursting—he would with one roll be under the bed and cover his face with both hands.

This anxiety and fear made him lose his appetite but he forced much food down himself. He must eat, so he would have the strength to resist. After he had eaten he could not digest the food and his breath stank even more. Since all the doors and windows were tightly closed, after a day or two the air in the room was like that in a fox’s hole.

His sick leave aroused the suspicions of the Japanese. The Japanese doctor came to examine him. The doctor knocked and opened the door. I'he stench of the fox nearly suffocated the doctor. Quickly he opened all the windows.

Ordinarily if a Japanese doctor should have come to visit him how many times Eastern Sun would have bowed. This day, however, he was not pleased. On the contrary he was afraid. Were not those who worked for the Japanese often poisoned by them?

The doctor gave him medicine for his indigestion but he would not take it. The doctor administered the medicine as he would to a fractious child.

Eastern Sun lay on the bed and was sure that he would die. He began to weep.

The medicine moved down and shortly his bowels began to rumble. He was sure he had been given arsenic. He struggled out of bed and again shut all the windows and the door, and then relieved himself in the room. His abdomen being a little more comfortable he smiled. Oh no, the Japanese doctor had not given him poison. He was still the confidant of the Japanese. Good, he must find a sure way to escape from Peiping.

Ah, why not? Why not go to Japan? That was his fatherland.

Fat Chrysanthemum was in the midst of planning for herself. She did not feel it unfair to Eastern Sun that she was unwilling to wait on him. She had already patiently supplied her fat flesh to him for more than three years; she need not go out of the way to try to please him.

If she wanted to leave—taking Eastern Sun’s money with her — she must leave at once. She could not wait until he had recovered. His illness was her opportunity.

She had already changed into gold and silver the money she had taken from Eastern Sun, and hid it in her maternal home. But who could say that the Japanese would not search her maternal home, if Eastern Sun should die? She should run away and run quickly. If she ran away now she could not only save the things she had hidden at her maternal home, but she could also take away a part of Eastern Sun’s valuables.

If, for instance, she could escape to Shanghai or Nanking, with the gold in her hands and the techniques she had learned all these years from Big Red Pepper and from Eastern Sun, she could certainly build up a new stove to cook up something new.

She could not calculate any longer. She must leave quickly, and seize the opportunity while Eastern Sun lay half dead and half alive, to take all the valuables to her maternal home, and then — with Eastern Sun’s seal — cash his bank account.

Taking the most valuable things and the cash, and leaving the less valuable at her maternal home, she went to Tientsin.

When Eastern Sun discovered that Chrysanthemum had gone he did not miss her too much. In these troublous times he knew that he could exchange a sack of flour for a young girl. He liked fat women, but if women’s flesh was counted according to weight he could — with two bags of flour — get him a fat one.

But when he discovered that Chrysanthemum had taken his treasure, his eyeballs rolled up and he was unconscious for half an hour. To be sure he still had all the possessions in the house, and there was money in the banks about which Chrysanthemum had not known, but these could not console him.

Eastern Sun became very ill. Anxiety, cold, and fear attacked him from all sides.

His green face — because he was suddenly cold and suddenly hot — was sometimes greyish white and sometimes purple. When he was cold his yellow teeth chattered incessantly. He tried to plan but the cold kept him from concentrating. All he could think of was death.

Then suddenly he would be hot all over and his thoughts would become very active, like a swarm of locusts flying wildly and without order. When a thought came he would shout loudly, “I will not die. Give me money. Go to Japan — ”

The Japanese doctor came again. After taking some medicine Eastern Sun slept fitfully. His sleep was not sound for his mind would not be still. He worried about money and about Chrysanthemum.

Because of Eastern Sun’s long illness another headmaster was appointed to the School of Railway Administration.

If this had happened in other times Rey Shuan would certainly have considered whether he should follow the traditional custom to resign, but now he decided not to waste thought and went to his classes as usual. If the new headmaster wanted to keep him he would follow Rey Tang’s instructions and teach the students. If the new headmaster did not want him he would think about how to meet the problem when the occasion arose.

The new headmaster was a middle-aged man without much vision, whose intentions, however, were not bad. The position of headmaster was one that he had sought, but he did not plan to squeeze or kill the students, nor did he wish to change his fellow workers. Rey Shuan kept his position.

To Rey Shuan it was not only a position, but an opportunity to do his duty to the students and to his country. He explained every word to his students — broke open the meaning and rubbed away the accumulation of ages, so they could understand every usage of every word. He used many references outside the textbook. He picked purposely examples of literature that would stimulate their imaginations and their love for their country, ones that would help wash the sense of national humiliation from their minds. He picked the references casually as if only to explain the passages being studied. He thought that in this way, even if there were secret agents among the students, they would not easily find fault with him.

The most difficult task was to find subjects for compositions. To follow his educational theories he was unwilling to give them empty and trite subjects that forced the students to have no way but to begin with, “Man in the world,” and then chew the ends of their brushes trying to think of what to say next. But he could not give them the big subjects that had to do with current events and the great affairs of the time. If he had dared to write anything closely related to the lives of the students on the blackboard he would at once have been arrested. In order to avoid empty themes and to avoid being arrested he always gave them topics that had to do with understanding the lessons taught. In this way he gave them themes about which they had words, and also he could get the reactions of the students to what he taught them.

While correcting these compositions he felt excited. Many students showed not only that they understood what he taught them but spoke discreetly of their own secret heart pains. In this way the tedium of correcting compositions changed to pleasure. He was talking in a secret language with a group of young people.

He paid special attention to the compositions of the pupils he suspected. He wanted to see if they would consciously or unconsciously show the kind of thought and theory that the Japanese wanted to have planted in the youth of China.

What made him most happy was that he discovered one or two pupils from traitors’ families who wrote exactly opposite to what their fathers thought. From this discovery he understood the mistake he had made. He had been pessimistic. He had thought that Peiping once occupied by the Japanese immediately became a pool of stagnant water. He had been wrong.

He decided to let Little Precious go to school. He had no time to teach the boy himself. He saw clearly that the teachers in the schools were not weak and worthless as he had imagined.

At the time when Eastern Sun was suffering from sudden cold and sudden heat, the winter — after having frozen to death many people who had no food and clothes — quietly retreated from Peiping. The new spring wind seemed still not to know how to behave itself. Sometimes it was cold and blew away the snow on the tops of the walls. Sometimes it was warm and brought moisture and spring clouds. The accumulated snow on the old city walls of Peiping began to melt. Moisture began to show between the bricks. At the foot of the walls life seemed especially ready to face danger. There were already small, light green, and tender sprouts of grass. Sometimes the golden tops of the pagodas and the yellow tiles of the Imperial Palace gave out rays of light; sometimes the ice would suddenly form and make the people think a-gain of the frightfulness of winter.

At this time people tore off the thick and tattered winter clothes, but when the gusts of cold wind came they would catch cold and die quickly. The borderland between winter and spring killed many people.

At last the spring was established and melted all the snow and ice. The brave honey bees began to appear in the air. News that was warmer than the spring breeze suddenly came and made all the people of Peiping forget the hunger and cold of the long winter: the American air force had bombed the Japanese homeland. Rey Shuan learned the news from the pamphlets sent out by Old Three.

Having read the pamphlets he did not know how he reached the school.

When he entered the classroom Rey Shuan saw many, many eyes shining with a smilinh light. Those eyes told him that those young people had all heard the news of the bombing of Japan. The happy light in their eyes seemed to have heat and made the classroom unusually warm. He did not say anything but looked at them with the same light in his eyes. The faces of all wore smiles and then tears appeared in many eyes.

Rey Shuan began to lecture. He could not help wanting to say between the sentences, “Japan has been bombed,” but he controlled himself. The words, however, whirled like music in his heart.

He also wanted to say to the students, “My younger brother, my younger brother brought this news to us,” but he dared not say it.

He began to understand propaganda. Before this, because of his pessimism, he had always thought that propaganda was nothing but the use of empty, useless words without much appeal or value. Now — look — this one piece of news could make him and his students and all in Peiping excited and happy.

Why not make more propaganda? He decided to help Old Three make propaganda. He knew how to write. He knew that Old Three had ways to get what he wrote printed, and Uncle Chien had ways to get it sent around.

He met the monk, Clear Moon, on the street and told him his wish to write for the underground. The monk told him several places to which he could send what he had written, and suggested that he change often, to avoid being caught by the spies.

As he left the monk Rey Shuan really saw the light of Peiping’s spring. He was elated. H had now put himself in a definite role. He need no longer feel ashamed of himself or hesitate.

The hearts of the stored turnips had become pulp, but on their heads fresh green leaves had appeared. There was not much moisture left in the stored cabbages but they had put forth tender yellow shoots. Even the humble garlic had put out shoots of jade green. Everything was decaying and everything was coming to life again.



Chapter Eighteen

THE JAPANESE issued regulations for air raid precautions. According to the regulations the windows of each house must be covered with black cloth.

There was not a family in the Little Sheep Fold that could afford to buy black cloth. Sergeant Pai and Fourth Master Li were in distress. They dared not ignore the executive order but knew that people who had no clothes to wear could not buy black cloth.

As soon as Sergeant Pai saw Fourth Master Li he sighed and said, “I had just said that as soon as people were happy some trouble was sure to come. See — each family must cover its windows with black cloth.”

“Oh — that means it’s time for me to be cursed again.”

“Ai — let’s hold our complaints. What are we to do? That’s more important. Suppose they can’t get any black cloth what shall we do?”

“Newspapers painted black — newspapers painted black. When the Japanese come to inspect — well — the people’s windows are black. Won’t that do?”

“There is something in what you say, but where can we find paste even. Republic flour will not make paste.”

“I will make a pail of paste and give it to the people free. In fact, even if I give them the paste free, I will still have to bear their cursing.”

Sergeant Pai said quickly, “I will not let you take all the insults this time. I will go first and tell the people they must use black cloth. Then you go and tell them they can use newspaper. And then if you give them paste, it would be strange if the people really do not know the difference between good and bad.”

The old man nodded.

“But the matter is not as simple as that.”

“What else?” the old man shouted.

Sergeant Pai smiled. “We must go to tell the people that if there is an air raid, each family must put out its lights and its fires, and all stay in their rooms.”

“So they can be killed by the bombs?”

Sergeant Pai did not answer the old man’s question but continued to explain the orders. “Each family must provide a person to stand outside the gate, for during the air raid no one is allowed to close his gate. If the family has no one to stand guard they must hire someone. The official rate is three dollars an hour.”

“What is the meaning of all this?”

“It would be strange if I understood. You might say that if the gates are wide open the Japanese could very conveniently go in and arrest anyone they chose.”

“You’re right. This is not for air raid precautions but convenience in arresting people.”

Sergeant Pai went to the families to tell them about the air raid matters.

The neighbors grumbled at Sergeant Pai’s notice, but all also realized, “It would look from this as though Japan had really been bombed,” and were happy.

Fouth Master Li went first to see Cheng Chang Shun and asked him for old newspapers.

Cheng Chang Shun told Fourth Master that he had old newspapers and also old rags. He asked the old man to take whatever newspapers he needed. “Old Sir, take an armful—better than having them all come here one by one. I am a businessman, it would not do for them to know that I gave these newspapers for nothing. Am I not right?"

“Right.” Fourth Master nodded.

“As for the rags — if there are any who want them — I will sell at the buying price, but I can’t give them away.”

Old Man Li carried away a great pile of newspapers, he made a pail of flour paste, and went to the neighbors. The neighbors were all grateful to him, and even John Ting accepted what the old man brought.

Yun Mei — alone of the neighbors — did not accept the old man’s paper and paste. She had already thought of using old paper and had pasted up the windows. She had also rubbed up a mess of ink and blackened the paper.

It was about ten o’clock at night when the first practice alarm sounded. Most of the people in the Little Sheep Fold had gone to bed.

The grown people could not find their clothes or they put on the wrong shoes. The children waking from their dreams cried aloud. Not understanding, hugging, pulling, and carrying their children, they all rushed into the courtyards. They then remembered the instructions Sergeant Pai had given them a few days ago: “During an air raid, put out the lights and sit in your rooms.”

Looking at the courtyards, looking at the heavens, they began to understand that even if they wanted to go out there was no place for them to go. The Japanese had prepared no dugouts for them. All they could do was to go back to their rooms.

Rey Shuan and Yun Mei put on their clothes and got up, and walked quietly into the courtyard. Rey Shuan went to warn the neighbors in the south house. “Air raid alarm — whether you get up or not makes no difference as far as I can see.” Then he went outside the window of his grandfather’s room and listened. If the old man was asleep he need not disturb him.

Yun Mei opened the gate and sat on the threshold. She had decided to sit there until the all clear sounded. She was not willing for Rey Shuan to guard the gate for he would have to go to class the next day, nor was she willing to pay three dollars an hour to hire a man to stand there for her.

Rey Shuan came out to see how she was getting on and she said to him, “Go to bed.”

“Let me stand here first and then after a while you can come and change with me. Who knows how many hours there will be in one session.”

“You go and sleep. I wouldn’t be able to sleep anyway.”

At this moment the Japanese from Number Three came quietly and quickly out of their gate, and walking under the shelter of the walls like a group of thieves they ran toward the main street.

“What are they going to do?” Yun Mei asked in a hushed voice.

“They must go to the places where they have air raid shelters. Heng!” Rey Shuan stood silent awhile and then went back into the courtyard.

In the darkness Yun Mei — from the shadows and sounds of coughing—began gradually to recognize that outside the gate of Fourth Master Li’s house was his fat son, outside the gate of the Widow Ma was Cheng Chang Shun, and outside the gate of Number Six was John Ting. Neither she nor they dared to say anything.

More than half an hour passed and nothing happened. Old Man Chi finally came out. “After all what’s it all about anyway? Nothing’s happened, you had better come in.”

“You’d better go to bed, Grandfather. I must stay here to watch. The Japanese may come to inspect.” Yun Mei managed to persuade the old man to go back to bed.

Yun Mei had guessed right. The gendarmes and police of the whole city had been mobilized to inspect every house. This was a practice but the Japanese wanted to make it as vivid as a real raid. Even if they worked the whole night through they must have the people of Peiping thoroughly trained, so that they would all put out their fires, and their lights, and stay in their rooms, in order that the Japanese could go without delay to the safe places, and also so the Japanese families would not be in danger of robbery.

They came. Yun Mei saw the shadows of four men coming from the west and quickly stood up. The two tall ones she guessed to be Fourth Master Li and Sergeant Pai. The two short ones were Japanese.

They passed by Number One and Number Three and came straight towards Yun Mei. She said not a word but stood aside. Neither did Fourth Master Li nor Sergeant Pai say anything but followed the Japanese into the courtyard.

There was no light and no fire. The Japanese, using their flashlights, looked at each window and it was black. They came out.

There was nothing wrong in Number Six.

When they reached the mixed court of Number Seven, however, both Fourth Master Li and Sergeant Pai sweated in anticipation.

It was not so bad. There was no fire or light anywhere — the people of Number Seven had no oil or coal.

But when the flashlights of the gendarmes were on the windows Sergeant Pai sweated all over. There were at least three families who had not pasted black paper on their windows. Fourth Master Li could not help swearing, “His mother’s — ! I even gave you the paste, why — ”

Sergeant Pai saw how serious the affair was. He would very likely be discharged because of this. Quickly and angrily he questioned the people, “Why did you not paper your windows? Why? Didn’t Fourth Master Li and I tell you about it again and again?”

His words were said to the people of Number Seven but the greater half was for the Japanese to hear, to clear himself and Fourth Master Li from responsibility.

“I’m really sorry,” a woman who was standing apart said in a miserable voice, “the children ate the paste. Sergeant Pai, say a few good words for us. All the year round the children do not see white flour.”

Sergeant Pai had nothing to say.

The Japanese gendarme knew very little Chinese and did not understand what the woman said. Without distinguishing black, red, or white, he slapped Fourth Master Li’s face twice.

Fourth Master Li was stunned. Although his life took him on the streets and among all manner of people, never had he wished to use force; on the contrary, when he saw others fighting, no matter whether they were holding swords or sticks, he would take the risk to try and separate them.

Anger suddenly filled his whole body. He forgot his love of peace and his discretion and knew only that before his eyes were two beasts who dared to strike a white-bearded old man. Coldly, without warning, he raised his hand and struck the face of the Japanese. He felt happy and satisfied. He had not said a word but he had put the whole of his strength in his hand.

The boots of the gendarmes kicked viciously at the old man’s legs. The old man fell.

Sergeant Pai dared not go forward to separate them. He wanted to save his old friend but he feared to provoke those two mad and wild beasts.

None of the people in the courtyard made a move.

The old man seized the leg of one of the gendarmes and threw him. The two men rolled together around the courtyard.

The other gendarme followed the two rolling on the ground and went forward and backward waiting for his opportunity, and then he kicked the old man in his temple. The old man did not move again.

The two gendarmes stopped kicking and striking and told Sergeant Pai to put in prison all the families who had not pasted up their windows.

The gendarmes and Sergeant Pai went away, and the people of the courtyard like a swarm of bees surrounded Fourth Master Li. The old man — from the time when he had become Head of the Li — had been reviled by them countless times and now because of them he was lying on the ground. Forced by their poverty they had cursed when there was no cause, but now they all wept.

The people carried Fourth Master Li home and he was unconscious for more than two hours. Fourth Mistress cried long and loudly even though the all clear had not yet sounded. She did not care whether it was “all clear” or not “all clear”; she built a fire to boil water for the old man to drink. All in the Little Sheep Fold forgot the air raid alarm, this one coming in and that one going out to see Fourth Master Li.

At about two o’clock in the morning the all clear sounded. Old Man Chi had not been able to sleep. Once in a while he would come out to see Yun Mei, and then he would go to his room and lie down.

Yun Mei, with an old wadded coat around her, leaned against the side of the gate, or sat half-sleeping on the steps. She wanted very much to go to see Fourth Master Li but she dared not leave her post. It did not matter whether it was a real air raid or not she must do her duty. She must not let there be trouble for the family.

A few minutes before the all clear the Japanese of Number Three all clattered home and Yun Mei knew that the business must soon be over.

The all clear sounded and Yun Mei ran to the Li home. Old Man Chi followed her. Fourth Master Li opened his eyes and looked at them and then shut them again. They did not dare to say anything to him. Old Man Chi seeing his friend of many years lying half dead wanted to cried loudly.

“Grandfather, shall we go?” Yun Mei quietly asked her grandfather.

Old Man Chi nodded and slowly they went away.

Fourth Master Li was unconscious most of the time for the next three days. Then he opened his eyes and looked at his wife and his family; then slowly he shut his eyes and never again opened them.

Fourth Mistress Li had nothing to offer those who came to console her yet the period of preparation and the funeral were carried out according to tradition. People who owed nothing to the Li family knew that Fourth Master had been a good man for the whole long lifetime, so they came also to kowtow the three times for him. Those who were indebted to him came weeping to pour the libations of wine before him. And those who were indebted to him and had yet reviled him, all came to pay him homage, to pour out their sufferings and shame, confessing their injustices.

Old Man Chi wept heartbrokenly. He and Fourth Master Li were the pair of old men in the Little Sheep Fold. In age, experience, and temperament they were more or less alike; and although they were not related they were like twins in their history. With Fourth Master Li’s death there was no one in the whole street or even the whole world who would understand Old Man Chi’s “old grain and rotting sesame.” They had been mutual witnesses of each other’s history.

Fourth Master Li’s funeral was handsome and well attended. Those who moved household goods, those in the coffin shops, and even the musicians and banner carriers were all his friends. They put on mourning and came to give their old friend a good send-off and went with him all the way out of the city. They had no way to avenge his death but could only use ritual, music, the procession, and friendship, and take him to his grave where he could sleep in peace. They hoped that his bones would not be dug up by the Japanese as they had dug up countless graves when they had built the airfield and the public highways.



Chapter Nineteen

DURING THE SUMMER the sunrise flag was flown in many places in the Pacific and in the South Seas. Many green islands with their sugar-cane fields and their rubber trees knelt to the descendants of the Sun God, but the short-legged soldiers were not much seen in Peiping. They came and went always in the night. They no longer dared march in the sunlight because their uniforms were patched and their shoes were broken. The Imperial Army had turned into a horde of ragamuffins.

Although the Imperial Army marched in the night to cover its shabbiness the Japanese people living in Peiping still showed their ugly manners. In the markets, in the residential streets, those Japanese women who walked with their heads bent and wore gaeta began to snatch goods. They would go in groups of three or five to the market and surround a vegetable or fruit stand. One would take a cabbage and another would take cucumbers and put them in their baskets. The others would not be idle but would stuff eggplant or squash into their sleeves. Snatching in this way they would chatter like beautiful porcelain dolls and smilingly separate and go away.

The grain they received, although it was better and more than that given to the Chinese, was still not enough. The victorious and the defeated had both become poor devils. The simplest way was to snatch food. The Chinese police did not interfere, the gendarmes would not question them, and the peddlers dared not stop them.

Their vanguard were the ronins from Korea — slaves with higher qualifications. They not only robbed and snatched but also destroyed goods. They would eat a melon or two without paying and then smash a few more. With such a vanguard before them the Japanese women could feel that their manners were not so low — they robbed only and did not destroy.

Ever since the summer began, the people of the Little Sheep Fold had to do without peddlers of vegetables and fruit. The peddlers were afraid of the Japanese women in house Number Three who would snatch and rob.

So the Chinese women, like Yun Mei, lost the convenience of buying onion or spinach outside their own gates. If they wanted but a clove of garlic they had to run to the main street, and besides — after being robbed by the Koreans or the Japanese women — the peddlers would make up their losses from the Chinese. They raised their prices. It seemed to Yun Mei that she had to pay a snatch tax.

From the time of Fourth Master Li’s death, Sergeant Pai had become more and more melancholy. He could make excuses for himself, but no matter how he thought he could not feel that he had dealt rightly with Fourth Master Li. It was he who had persuaded the old man to become Head of the Li. It was he, when the Japanese gendarmes were striking the old man, who had not tried to stop them. He had to go to the Little Sheep Fold on patrol but he was afraid of meeting Fourth Mistress Li and her son. If he met them he would hang his head and lower his eyelids. He was no longer a handsome police sergeant; he was a petty thief who had stolen his life in shame and misery and ignominy.

He gave instructions to his men not to interfere with the stealing of the Koreans and the Japanese women. “If we report or interfere with them those arrogant Things will say to put the peddlers in prison. To shut our eyes, brothers, is the best way to manage. All Peiping has been taken by them. What standards can be used to judge right from wrong?”

For Head of the Little Sheep Fold Li he had thought of Chi Rey Shuan or Cheng Chang Shun, but he knew that they were both too peaceable and would not know how to deal with the neighbors.

John Ting had seen the vacancy as soon as Fourth Master Li had died. He now had time, for he had not looked for work after coming out of the English Palace. Having worked in the English Palace he was not willing to work in the foreign food restaurants. Even if he had been willing to lower his standards, it was not certain that he would have been able to find work because most of the foreign food restaurants — because of the anti-American and anti-English attitude of the Japanese — had closed.

Sergeant Pai did not like John Ting’s foreign ways, but since he could not find a suitable man he thought it best to nod his head.

Having made arrangements for Head of the Li, Sergeant Pai was still without peace day or night. Stuck in his mind like a fish bone in a throat was his age.

Although he shaved meticulously every day with an old razor and cared for his old uniform and kept the old leather shoes clean and neat, although he forced himself to push out his chest when he walked, he knew that these could not disguise his aging appearance. He did not want to be a running dog for the Japanese, but he was also afraid that the Japanese would dismiss him. When he was patrolling, he was always fearful that he would suddenly meet a Japanese who would say to him, “Roll away! Who wants such an old Thing as you to be a sergeant of police?”

What troubled him even more was that after the Japanese women had taken to snatching goods, the Chinese had also learned the art. He had already told his men not to interfere with the Japanese and the Koreans. How could he tell them they must interfere with the Chinese when in fact the Chinese were able to secure less than the Japanese? If he did not dare to interfere with the Japanese then he should not interfere with the Chinese.

He hung his head and said to his men, “It would be better not to interfere with them either. There is not much fat on our stomachs. Who does not know the feeling of hunger? If we arrest them the Japanese will not praise us for doing our duty. The prisons are full already and there is no grain. Well — I will say it again, ‘Open one eye and close the other.’ When both of our eyes are closed and never open again perhaps the world will have peace.”

The scarcity of food had really made the people of the master race show their foxtails; and hunger had made the slaves forget the sense of shame. Peiping’s hungry people cared only for something to put in their mouths. They no longer cared what was seemly. To snatch and to rob became common practice.

In the Peiping shops selling meat, both cooked and raw, the block on which the cooked meat and sausages were cut was almost as high as a man was tall. This was because the shopkeepers were afraid that the customers would pick the meat up from the block and have their fingers chopped off. But now these high blocks — like half a large tree — could no longer stop people’s hands. In the meat shops where they sold fresh raw meat they had in the past cut the raw meat on a flat board, because no matter how greedy a person he would not pick up raw meat or fat and put it into his mouth. Now, however, there were those who made a practice of snatching raw meat.

The meat shops had not had much business from the time the Japanese controlled all foodstuffs. For three days or perhaps five they would not have any meat to sell and then, of course, they had no business. When, occasionally, they had some meat to sell they would cut the meat in the night, and, whether it was cooked or raw, chop it into little pieces and wrap it in paper or lotus leaves and hide it in the cupboard. Those who came to buy had first to hand over the money and then be given a small parcel of meat.

This practice of money first and goods later blew like a gust of wind over the whole of Peiping. If one did not first show money he could not buy anything at all.

Those who sold shaoping and chiaotse and the peddlers of other foodstuffs all covered their baskets with wire nets and also locked the covers on them. Those who wanted to buy had first to hand over the money and then the peddlers would unlock their baskets and hand over the goods. When they handed over the goods they would make it clear to the customers that once the goods were in the hands of the customers the peddlers were no longer responsible. This was because there were often people waiting beside the stands or the peddlers’poles and baskets to snatch the food as it passed from one hand to another.

Yun Mei had been robbed twice and so did not dare to let Little Precious go to buy things for her. Although the things she had lost had not been worth much she had been frightened.

Mrs.Tien Yiu hesitatingly suggested, “Why not take Little Precious with you? Four eyes can do more business than two.”

Yun Mei felt that to have Little Precious with her — whether he would be useful or not — would add to her courage, but he had to go to school.

“Ai,” Old Man Chi sighed, “it doesn’t matter whether he goes to school or not at a time like this!”

Little Precious was proud of himself when he heard of this assignment, and at once suggested that he should carry a stick. “If anyone grabs your sack, Mother, I will strike him with my stick.”

“You calm down,” Yun Mei said between smiles and tears. “Open your eyes a little wider. That is what we will need. Watch all the time and shout if you see anyone following us.”

“For the police?” Little Precious interrupted.

“Heng — if the police took any notice it would be strange!”

“Then what shall I shout for?” Little Precious wanted to have everything clear so he could carry out the responsibility for protecting his mother.

“Whatever you want to shout — just shout,” the grandmother explained.

Old Man Chi — in order to show that even though he was old and weak he still had wisdom — began to look for some cord and pieces of cloth. When he had found them he said to Yun Mei, “Tie these on the basket. When you have bought everything tie up the strings as is done on the traveling baskets. Won’t that make it safer?”

“What you have thought of, Grandfather, is really wise,” Yun Mei said. She did not say, “What if they snatch the basket also?”

Rey Shuan, of course, wanted to help. On his way back from school he would buy things to save Yun Mei from having to run countless times to the shops, and so reduced the chances for being robbed.

One day as he was going home from school he remembered that Yun Mei had asked him to bring back something but he could not remember what it was.

After walking awhile he saw a peddler selling shaoping and friedcakes. Before the war the shaoping peddlers were as common as sparrows, but now seeing one seemed most strange. The wire netting on the basket was also strange and new.

He decided to buy two shaoping and two friedcakes to lessen the guilt of having forgotten Yun Mei’s request and also to please Little Niu Niu. She still wept at the sight of Republic flour.

As he walked along carrying the shaoping, and friedcakes he thought of Mr.Goodrich. Did not Mr.Goodrich constantly give Niu Niu cakes or bread? He was anxious to see his old friend, although he knew that even if he could find out where the old man was he would not dare go see him. He knew that the Japanese especially hated the Chinese who had anything to do with Westerners.

As he was thinking these thoughts suddenly a hand appeared at his side, a very dirty and very thin hand. Before he could understand what was happening the shaoping and the friedcakes were gone. He stopped and turned around.

The one who had snatched the shaoping was a very thin and very weak man, running with all he had in him and yet not running fast.

He spat several times on the shaoping and friedcakes, so that even if he were caught he would not need to return the food.

Rey Shuan caught up with him. The thin man, like an old hen cornered, stood still with his face against the wall. Rey Shuan was sorry he had run after him when he saw this was a man who had a sense of shame.

“Friend, take them and eat. I don’t want them.” Rey Shuan said this gently, hoping the thin man would turn around.

The thin man hid his face even more closely to the wall.

Rey Shuan wanted to say, “War has broken our souls, and taken away the skin from our faces. This is not your fault alone.” But he was unable to say it. He felt that these were empty words. There was no reason or word that could satisfy hunger. He said, “Friend, eat.”

The thin man seemed to be moved and slowly turned around.

Rey Shuan understood. This was Scholar Yeh, the brother-in-law of the poet, Mr.Chien. Forgetting everything he managed to say, “Mr.Yeh.”

Scholar Yeh bent his head, leaned back against the wall, and stood without expression. His hair, which had not been cut for several months, was long and disordered and curled on his head. His face was so thin it was like the edge of a knife and it had been many days since he had washed it. There were no tears in his eyes nor was there any expression as they stared at the friedcakes in his hands.

Rey Shuan took hold of Scholar Yeh’s arm. Scholar Yeh wanted to free his arm but had not the strength. Stumbling he went along with Rey Shuan. He could only say, “Where are we going?”

“We will find a place to sit down,” Rey Shuan said.

They came to a little restaurant. As they went in a waiter stopped them. “I’m sorry, we did not get anything today so we have not lighted the fires. There is no business.”

A restaurant without a fire, without the clatter of dishes, is uglier than anything else. The tables and benches were set in an orderly manner and in the air there still was the smell of fats and of cooking that had accumulated over many years.

“Can we just sit awhile?” Rey Shuan asked in a courteous manner. “This gentleman is a little unwell.” He pointed to Scholar Yeh.

“Why not, the benches are empty,” the waiter smiled and said. “You see, sir, how can we do business? There is nothing to sell and yet we have to keep our doors open. It is a jest.”

The two sat down. Scholar Yeh’s thin face had become thinner and seemed longer. His eyeballs were like the eyes of a dead fish. He no longer fidgeted but sat stupidly and without motion.

Scholar Yeh sighed. “There is nothing to say — I am just short of death.” As he spoke the muscles of his face moved hardly at all. He was stating a fact and there was no need of any expression to help him.

“I have ruined everything,” Scholar Yeh said quietly. “To support my sick wife and my children I worked for the Japanese, and used opium to numb myself. Well — I sold my soul that my wife and children should not starve. To sell a soul and save the lives of a whole family is not a bad bargain.” He stopped and stared dully at the table.

Rey Shuan dared not urge him to speak but only coughed.

Scholar Yeh seemed to be wakened by the cough and went on, “My wife — it was strange — with food to eat was weaker than ever, as though the food I gave her were poisonous. She died.” There was Still no expression on his face and he seemed to be reciting a story he had heard many times. “Those who are dead are the fortunate ones. I thought that when my sons and daughters were grown and could earn money they would support me. As soon as my eldest son began to earn money, without saying a word he left Peiping. He not only did not show his gratitude but he seemed to hate me, to hate me for selling my soul. Like my eldest son, my other three boys also. I sold my soul to bring them up and what did I get from them? Emptiness and heartlessness.” He moistened his thin lips.

“There are so many funny things to laugh about. I have just told you that it was because of my opium habit that the Japanese treated me well. When my habit became so strong that I was too lazy to move, they dismissed me. I lost my income and had left only a few children who could not earn money and who will probably run away from me when they can earn money. I cannot care for them any longer and even if I did care for them they would not be grateful to me. If I don’t care for them they will starve, but 1 have no way to manage. I still smoke opium, and the opium intoxicates me — that is opium’s greatest virtue. What is there to be ashamed of? I am a man whose own children do not recognize him as their father. Today I robbed you but I need not apologize. I know that you will forgive one about to die.”

“You cannot die like this.” Rey Shuan wanted to help him.

“No one should die like this but I must die this way. Tomorrow, perhaps, I will lie on the street and be taken away in the big truck and thrown outside the city. I have no hope of being buried in the ancestral graveyard. I could not face my ancestors.” He stood up shaking and started to go away.

When they were outside the restaurant Scholar Yeh sat on the steps and began to eat the shaoping.



Chapter Twenty

WANG THE THIRD had become prosperous. He now owned three pieces of property — three compounds. Although his appearance, his dress, and his manner had not changed, his heart was different from what it had been. He was no longer one of those who grasped for food on the side of the street. He was now a member of the small gentry and had some dignity. Although he still sat in the tea shops every day small contracts were of no interest to him. When he was with those of his own walk of life, he would sit apart with his back straight as if to say, “For little affairs don’t bother me. For the sake of three grains of sesame and two dates, Wang the Third will not trouble to move his legs.”

His manner toward those who wanted to sell or buy houses was also different from what it had been. As soon as he saw a customer he would say, “I also have property,” and he would have liked to add, “Don’t think I am an ordinary go-between who will come when you beckon and go when you wave your hand. Heng — I have my dignity!”

He had not forgotten that the Japanese had ruined the family of his relatives, the Chiens, yet he could not overlook the fact that from the time the Japanese had come to Peiping he had had more business, so much more that he now owned property himself. For the sake of Mr.Chien he should hate the Japanese, but for his own sake he should be grateful to them. Since these conflicting points of view could not be resolved they could only be kept in balance.

Gradually this balance could no longer be maintained. A balance is the beginning of slipping to one side or the other.

Because he wanted to protect his property forever, he could not help believing what the Japanese said in their propaganda, that the Japanese were not there to fight the Chinese but to help the Chinese be rid of the communists. Wang the Third thought inside his square head that if the Japanese should really destroy the communists it would be equal to protecting his three houses.

He thought constantly of his in-law, Mr.Chien. Whether he was walking on the streets or sitting in the tea shops his eyes were always on the watch, hoping to see the man he so much admired. Whenever he saw one that looked like his relative he would rush over hoping that he had not seen wrong, and when he saw that it was not Mr.Chien he would rub his eyes and scold himself for an old man whose eyesight was no longer sure.

He loved his grandson so much that he almost spoiled him. While Mr.Chien was suffering the greatest hardships the grandson was smothered with love and indulgence. Wang the Third himself ate Republic flour and drank poor tea, but he used all means to get better food and drink for the child. If the child had a bit of headache or a little fever he would invite the best doctor in Peiping. To make the child happy and comfortable was practically his religion.

When young Mrs.Chien wanted to punish the child, Wang the Third would hold him in his arms and say with his attitude, “You are fortunate to have a child like this and yet you want to punish him! If you did not have him what would you be?”

As soon as the child learned to walk Wang the Third believed that he should see the world. With the child on his shoulder or on his neck, with his chest stuck out and taking long strides, he would go and see the sights on the streets, visit the temple fairs and the market places. No matter whether it was good to eat or not, whether it was suitable for the child to play with or not, if only the child said, “Ah, ah,” Wang the Third would quickly take out the money and buy it for him.

When, however, the child could say many things Wang the Third was in trouble. The child learned from his mother to say, “Down with the Japanese,” and “Avenge my father,” and also he would stick out his little chest and say, “My surname is Chien.” Wang the Third could not take around with him a grandson who shouted at all times, “Down with the Japanese,” nor could he quarrel with his daughter; the neighbors might hear and tell the Japanese. He did not fear arrest. His body was strong enough to take a few blows, but suppose the Japanese should confiscate his property.

Inside his square head Wang the Third decided he must find a way to be closer to the Japanese. This did not mean that he wanted to become a collaborator or a running dog. No, he was not that low; he wanted only to come not loo far and not too near — in order to make himself secure.

He joined the Society of the Three Purities. The Society of the Three Purities was an organization for gathering talented people and people of some ability like Wang the Third who were not very clear in their thinking. The Japanese soon classified him as a “useful man,” and wanted to make friends with him.

After they had made Wang the Third believe they were well-intentioned people, the Japanese suddenly mentioned the poet, Mr.Chien, to him. Wang the Third was stunned. The words of the Japanese were put together from the grains of sesame he had scattered. The Japanese immediately guaranteed him that they would not hurt Mr.Chien. On the contrary, they admired Mr.Chien’s learning, his character and courage, just as much as Wang the Third admired his relative. They wanted to find him, and forgive him, and become his friend. Wang the Third must help them. They also hinted to him that if he were unwilling to help them — Heng! — his three houses and his grandchild would no longer be safe.

He had been a smart man all his life but now Wang the Third had fallen into a trap. His always red and bright nose became purple. He became angry. He would not help the Japanese to catch Mr.Chien even if they said they would not hurt him.

Thinking and thinking Wang the Third thought of a plan. He would go to find Mr.Chien and ask him for a plan.

But where would he go to find Mr.Chien?

He remembered Scholar Yeh. It had been a long time since he had seen that thin fellow, who had also been concerned with Mr.Chien.

But he drew a blank. The neighbors of Scholar Yeh told him that the whole family had disappeared.

Wang the Third thought of Rey Shuan.

The ears of the whole Chi family stood up. They all wanted to know how the young Mrs.Chien and her child were faring.

But Wang the Third could not take time to talk about his daughter and his grandson. He asked immediately for Mr.Chien’s whereabouts.

At first Rey Shuan thought it must be anxiety for Mr.Chien that made Wang the Third so anxious to know where he was, but after a while he saw that something was wrong and began to question Wang the Third.

Wang the Third was so impatient he constantly knocked the bowl of his pipe, but determined not to tell the truth. Rey Shuan also decided to be cautious and not to give any information. Finally, depressed and disappointed, Wang the Third went away.

Rey Shuan felt uneasy. He did not know why Wang the Third wanted to find Mr.Chien but he began to see danger. He wanted to go at once and warn Mr.Chien, but on second thought he felt that he was letting himself be greatly frightened by a small matter. How could he go and frighten Mr.Chien when there was no wind or breakers three feet high. Wang the Third and Mr.Chien were, after all, fathers of a son and a daughter who had married.

He decided to wait, to wait until he gave the manuscripts to the monk, Clear Moon, and first discuss the matter with him.

But Wang the Third, seeing that Rey Shuan’s mouth was so close, also suspected Rey Shuan. He thought that Rey Shuan knew where Mr.Chien was but purposely refused to tell him. He decided to shadow Rey Shuan.

He discovered that Rey Shuan met Clear Moon in a little shop, and then Wang the Third followed the monk, Clear Moon, and discovered the little temple.

Wang the Third did not dare enter the little temple. Suppose Mr.Chien were really there and he went in to persuade him to surrender, and then suppose Mr.Chien would not listen to his persuasions but should move and hide somewhere else —

On the other hand could he — because Mr.Chien refused to listen to him — heartlessly inform the Japanese to come and arrest him?

When he had gone to see Rey Shuan he had seen the houses Number One and Number Three in the Little Sheep Fold, and had remembered how, years ago, he had gone to see Morning Lotus behind Mr.Chien’s back. Now was he himself to become a Morning Lotus? The people of the Kuan family were a pack of dogs; Wang the Third was a good Son of Han.

But if his Chien in-law were really in the temple and he did not inform the Japanese would he not have the guilt of protecting his relative, and he and all his property would be involved.

His conscience and the evil in his mind were locked in struggle; neither would give a step. War was the criminal that was forcing his conscience to think only of his own security, and to sell his relative.

He frequently stood in the neighborhood of the little temple but dared not go in. He wanted to see the relative and friend he most admired, but he was also afraid that if he went in and saw Mr.Chien he would be scolded.

While he hesitated outside the little temple others shadowed him. He dared not go inside the temple but those others secretly went in.

And Mr.Chien was arrested.



Chapter Twenty-one

ITALY SURRENDERED and in the Pacific the Imperial Japanese Navy retreated from point to point. The Japanese in Peiping were each ordered to make ten Chinese friends.

The Japanese in house Number Three of the Little Sheep Fold, like the other Japanese of Peiping, began to come out to make “friends.” In the past they and their Chinese neighbors had had no social intercourse, but now even the expressions on their faces must be changed according to order.

Fourth Mistress Li was the first to reject their friendship. She loved everybody but she could not love the people who had kicked her old mate to death. Although she knew that those who had kicked her old mate to death were not the people from Number Three, still Japanese were after all Japanese — and she was not willing to distinguish too clearly between them?

The old widow’s mouth was not at all what a widow’s should be. She used all the vile words she knew. The Japanese did not know the dictionary in which her words could be found and could only listen with smiles. They thought she was speaking nicely to them. They had come to make friends with her — how could she be reviling them?

Cheng Chang Shun almost quarreled with his grandmother. Old Widow Ma, holding to her philosophy of amiability, wanted to receive the Japanese and not offend them. She knew they were to be feared and hated, but since they had come to her she felt that at least she should give them a cup of tea and should not absolutely drive them away.

Chang Shun decided to lock the gate from the inside. He could not receive “friends” of that kind.

In the Little Sheep Fold everyone felt that this business of killing people and then making friends was a jest, and a hateful one. Without consultation and as one man, they paid no attention to the Japanese.

John Ting was the only exception.

In the past when he had been working in the English Palace, John Ting had despised the Japanese more than anyone. Now he had had no work for a long time and his hope of going back to the English Palace faded more and more. He had to have a foreign master for his heart to be at peace. He had become accustomed to being a slave to the foreigners.

After he became Head of the Li he had been able to play some tricks and had obtained some coal. This coal made it possible for him to have some income every day. He had built a small stove in his courtyard and begun to sell fire. The neighbors who had no coal to make a fire could come to him and boil their tea water or cook their food. He watched the big clock and charged according to the time.

The Japanese in Number Three could not understand why the Chinese were so unfeeling and unreasonable as not to be friendly with them. Only when John Ting repaid their call did they begin to feel happy. They had feared that if they did not make a single friend they would be punished. They were thinking of going to house Number One to ask the old lady there how she had became so friendly with all the neighbors, and if the old lady would not tell them they would threaten her, and perhaps make up accusations and secretly harm her. Fortunately John Ting, Head of the Little Sheep Fold Li, was willing to make friends with them. They must hold him tightly in the way they invaded others’ countries — first to hold one place and then gradually move forward like silk worms eating mulberry leaves.

John Ting, like other foreign slaves, wanted there to be still more foreign slaves so that he could be their prophet and leader. He boasted to the Japanese in house Number Three, “I am Head of the Li, I can give orders for them all to be your friends.” When he came out of house Number Three, John Ting’s back was straight again, and he had almost the air he had had when in the English Palace.

He went to find Sergeant Pai. He practically ordered Sergeant Pai to help him notify the neighbors that they must show good feeling toward the Japanese.

Sergeant Pai was a practical man, but practical according to reason and according to the right emotions. He never lost his head and he was able to take advantage of an opportunity, but he would not because of this lose his love for his country and for his own people. He die not agree with John Ting.

“Just one word is enough,” he said to John Ting. “If the Japanese want to make friends with us, is it not the same as the weasel taking New Year’s Greetings to the chicken?”

John Ting was annoyed. He was the child of the national humiliation of the last hundred years. The air he breathed was that of the national shame. His highest ideal was to beg the foreigners to lift their honorable hands and not to strike him, but to let him lead his life as a foreign slave. According to what he thought, England could be defeated by Japan but Japan could never be defeated by the Chinese. Even if Japan should unfortunately be defeated, would not England and America become strong again and again be his masters? Never could the Chinese alone get their backs straight and walk shoulder to shoulder together as brothers with the English and the Americans. He did not want to talk any more with Sergeant Pai.

John Ting went to see Rey Shuan. Rey Shuan had eaten the food of the English Palace — he would certainly understand.

If this had happened some time before Rey Shuan would have smiled a little and said something slightly ironic to send John Ting away. Now, however, he decided to tell John Ting in detail what he knew about the world situation, whether John Ting understood or not, or whether he wanted to hear or not. Rey Shuan must take every opportunity to do his duty in spreading his propaganda. After a long speech he said to John Ting, “Sergeant Pai and the neighbors are right. It is your thinking that is wrong.”

John Ting chewed the cud of Rey Shuan’s words and began to see some light. “Oh, I understand now. You are saying that America and England will certainly be victorious and that you and I will go back again to work in the English Palace. That will be wonderful, be wonderful.”

Rey Shuan wanted to spit in John Ting’s face but he controlled himself. “You are still wrong. We should not be dependent on anyone. We should be our own masters.”

John Ting said no more but very politely took his leave. He could not understand what Rey Shuan meant.

He went again to see the people in house Number Three and told them that Sergeant Pai was unwilling to co-operate. He had no desire to harm Sergeant Pai behind his back but he must make the Japanese understand how ardently he had tried to get friends for them. If the Japanese should, unfortunately, hate Sergeant Pai that could not be helped.

The Japanese immediately hated Sergeant Pai. Their hatred came more quickly than friendly love.

They would not tell the high Japanese officials about this small matter but wrote a letter to Sergeant Pai’s superiors, who were also Chinese, and accused him of neglecting his duty.

Sergeant Pai’s superiors were afraid of losing their jobs and starving to death. For the sake of their own rice bowls they dared not protect Sergeant Pai. They dismissed him.

Sergeant Pai’s best years had passed. He had experience, ideas, and the affection of the people, but he had no savings and no prospects. All his life he had used all he had. Heng! If he had had only cunning and deceit and had had no kindness of heart, perhaps in these years of tumult and disturbance he might not have been discharged.

Well, since a good heart and good conduct could not save him, why not take up his hands and kill and burn? The Japanese were those who killed and set fires and they had become the masters of Peiping. He decided to kill John Ting. Who cared whether it was good or bad to kill? The greatest revelation of the war was to show people who had never killed before how to kill.

On second thought — if one was to kill, why not kill a Japanese?

He did not tell his family that he had been discharged, but stuck the kitchen chopper inside his coat, and went out.

He went toward the Little Sheep Fold. There were Japanese on every street, but without thinking and from habit, he walked toward the Little Sheep Fold. He was used to the place, and most likely, those who had informed on him were from house Number Three. Well — they would do for a start to try out his kitchen chopper.

His long face was deadly pale; beads of sweat stood out on his forehead; his back was very straight; his eyes looked straight ahead but he saw nothing. He was no longer Sergeant Pai; he was only a spirit of death, gloomy and cold as (a life-demanding ghost) death, about 5 or 6 feet tall. He had lost his past and his future; he had lost his cunning and his good heart. He had lost everything, and thought only of burying his chopper in flesh and then to pass it across his own throat.

When he saw the spirit screen of house Number Three he stood still. It was as though he had suddenly awakened. He had been about to do a thing that was entirely contrary to the ideals of his whole life. He stood in a daze.

Rey Shuan came out of his gate.

A large portion of Sergeant Pai’s will to kill evaporated when he saw Rey Shuan. His shoulders sagged and his hands and feet began to tremble.

“What’s the matter, Sergeant Pai?” Rey Shuan asked.

Sergeant Pai’s hands went to the place where the chopper was hidden as if he were afraid that Rey Shuan would search him.

Rey Shuan saw that something was wrong. Taking Sergeant Pai’s arm he said, “Come and sit with me awhile in my house.”

Without knowing what to do Sergeant Pai went with Rey Shuan, but when he had crossed the threshold he seemed to forget the killing of people and returned to his original courteous ways. “Mr.Chi, I — I will not go in.” He really did not want to go in and talk with Rey Shuan. He felt that to kill was shameful, even to kill a Japanese who had made him lose his job.

Rey Shuan saw that Sergeant Pai must be in trouble. “If you don’t want to come in, suppose we talk here.” He closed the gate of the compound.

Sergeant Pai not only regretted that he had wanted to kill, he also regretted that he had not had the courage to kill. All he could do was to tell what was in his heart, and let Rey Shuan be the judge. Very quickly, and without leaving out any details, he told Rey Shuan everything.

When he had heard the story Rey Shuan said nothing for a long time. Sergeant Pai’s story and his psychology were the same as Rey Shuan’s and that of many, many Peiping people. The people were all unwilling to be conquered by the Japanese, all wanted to fight, yet the peacefulness and lawabidingness assimilated over many thousand years made them wish to do things but unable to do them.

Rey Shuan understood what was in Sergeant Pai’s mind so he wanted to encourage him not to kill the Japanese, but to join the group and do underground work. But could he tell Sergeant Pai about Mr.Chien and Old Three? He must be careful and first tell about himself without mentioning Mr.Chien and Old Three.

Rey Shuan spoke with hesitation and Sergeant Pai listened carefully. After a while Sergeant Pai interrupted, “Mr.Chi, what you have to say — say out. I am not one to be a running dog and sell my friends. I am already a man without a way to live. I am one who has already thought of killing the Japanese and then myself. I could not — for a few dollars — sell my friends. If you want me to swear, I will swear.”

Rey Shuan was satisfied and began to tell the truth. “Sergeant Pai, the two of us should certainly be able to do more than Mr.Chien. If Mr.Chien can do so much, could not the two of us accomplish something? Shall we not co-operate? I know that you have no income and no way to live, but what I can share with you I will certainly share with you — that goes without saying. Old Three also will perhaps be able to think of something for you. If we work together today, and tomorrow unfortunately we are arrested, will we not have earned good names for ourselves, for after our death?”

“Tell me what shall I do first?” Sergeant Pai asked without the slightest hesitation.

“It has been quite a few days since I lost contact with Old Three and Mr.Chien. I dare not go to the little temple. I suspect Wang the Third. He came suddenly to see me the other day. If Mr.Chien has been arrested again, the Japanese would certainly keep the monk, Clear Moon, in the temple as a decoy to catch Old Three and others. So I dare not go to the temple. Would you dare to go?”

“Look,” Sergeant Pai smiled sadly and took the chopper out from under his coat. “I had prepared to die. Of what should I be afraid?”

“There will be no need for a chopper.” Rey Shuan also smiled. “I think it is most suitable for you to go to the temple. You have eyes, and with a glance will be able to see the situation, and to know whether you should go in or not. The monk, Clear Moon, does not know you, and that is another advantage. If you do not know each other there can be no expression which would inadvertently let out information. When you get there you will decide whether to go in or not. If you go in — ten thousand — you must not talk with the monk. You must pose as a man seeking to know the future from the gods, and you must act truly. You must pray, saying that you have lost your job, and when you have shaken out the fortune stick, and go to the rack for your fortune sheet, you must take the bottom one of the pile. The news we want will be on that. If you can but get that sheet of paper I will know why I have lost touch with Old Three. But you — ten thousand — must not bring that paper to me directly. I will meet you at the fair in the White Dagoba Temple. We must look for places where there are crowds — places where they have shows of magic, or the stands for selling secondhand clothing. We will meet in some place like that.”

“These are things that I can do.” Sergeant Pai began to look cheerful.

“I know. And you must, besides, have some business even if it is only to sell peanuts so that John Ting will not suspect you. You should go to see him often, and talk nonsense to him, and praise his Christian virtues. In short you must humor him and not let him — out of suspicion — inform again on you.”

“All right, Mr.Chi. I have come to life again, and if I live only two or three more days I will certainly be grateful to you.” Sergeant Pai again hid the knife and started to open the gate to go out.

“If you are arrested, even if they break your bones to pieces, you must not tell about anyone else,” Rey Shuan warned him in a low voice.

Sergeant Pai nodded and opened the gate of the compound.

He took the kitchen chopper back home, and went immediately to the little temple.

With his head bent he walked by the little temple and looked out of the corners of his eyes.

The gate of the temple was open and no one was visible in the hall or in the courtyard. He passed by thinking that he must buy some incense sticks, that carrying incense in his hands he would look more like a real seeker of knowledge about the future.

Not far beyond the little temple he saw Wang the Third. Sergeant Pai recognized Wang the Third’s red nose and square head. He coughed. Wang the Third jumped. Sergeant Pai smiled very convincingly and said, “How are you, Third Master Wang?” His approach was familiar but not abrupt or startling, and only he who had been a policeman for many years could have been so natural.

“What’s the matter? Who are you?” Wang the Third showed his confusion.

“Don’t you remember me?” Sergeant Pai pretended to be an old acquaintance. “My name is Pai. I live near the Little Sheep Fold.”

The three words Little Sheep Fold seemed to be a dagger thrust into Wang the Third’s heart.

Sergeant Pai began to walk toward the west, and Wang the Third unconsciously walked along with him.

Wang the Third’s nose was still red but it did not shine, and his forehead which had always shone was now not only dark but heavily lined. His eyelids were red as though he had not slept for many nights. There was dust not only on his shoes, but even on his shoulders and on his trousers as if he had stood in the street for several days. “Let us find a place where we can sit down awhile,” Sergeant Pai suggested.

Wang the Third nodded his square head.

“Ah?” Wang the Third questioned as soon as they had sat down. It was as if Sergeant Pai had already asked him a question, and his words were so tightly packed in his heart that they were ready to burst forth. If even a dog had wagged its tail to him it was very likely he would have told what was in his mind. “My in-law, my in-law, they have taken him,” he said abruptly.

“Mr.Chien?” said Sergeant Pai, thinking of the time seven years before when Mr.Chien had been arrested. “How do you know?”

“They told me — they, the Japanese. Ha — I am smart! In order to protect my property, in order to provide food and drink for my daughter and my grandson, I have been friendly with the Japanese. Because I peeped at the little temple they went in and stole my in-law away, and then they told me not to worry, that they would not make him suffer. Hum — seven years ago they beat the flesh off his back! I have no face to go home and see my grandson. I have sent his grandfather into the tiger’s mouth — what face have I to see that child?” Wang the Third said this over and over, almost as though he were not talking but spewing out the misery in his heart.

“We must think of some way to save Mr.Chien.” Sergeant Pai said this trying to lead Wang the Third's words towards ways for making plans.

“Save him? Of course.” Wang the Third brought a pile of bank notes from inside his clothes. “I have already prepared this money, to move around, and try to buy out my in-law. If this is not enough I can sell my houses. I can spend money, money. What are houses! Whatever happens I must first see my in-law again and tell him that I am a fool, that I am not a man. I know that once I tell him this he will understand me and will forgive me. He is an educated man and an understanding person. If he has been beaten to death by them, and I cannot see him — I really don’t know how I will be able to meet him in the regions below. My bones will not stay in the coffin. Help me, help me pity me, pity me.”

“Surely I will help you.”

“How will you help me?” Wang the Third wanted to give Sergeant Pai some money, but he must first know clearly what was Sergeant Pai’s plan before he gave him the money.

“We must first find out where Mr.Chien’s friends are and then we will find some way to save him.”

“Where will we go to make inquiries?”

“Inside the little temple.”

“Good, I’ll go.” Wang the Third stood up.

“Wait a bit.” Sergeant Pai also stood up and stopped Wang the Third. “I’ll go. You stand afar and watch. If, unfortunately, I am caught by them, you can take a message to Rey Shuan.

“Good.” Color began to appear in Wang the Third’s cheeks. Although to save Mr.Chien was still a long way off, he felt that they had started on the path. He gave Sergeant Pai a few bank notes. “Take these. If you don’t want them I’m the ‘son of a dog.’ You are doing things for my relative, I cannot let you use your own money for eating and drinking.”



Chapter Twenty-two

YOUNG Mrs.CHIEN sat on the steps of the house and held her head in her hands. It was as though she could not remember clearly what had happened a few hours before. As she tried to remember she stammered, “He went out to buy something to eat - ”

“Then what? Speak.” Wang the Third was becoming impatient.

“Went out — and for a long time did not come back.”

“Why did you let him go out alone?”

She did not want to argue. “I thought he was playing and eating inside the gate. After a while I began to worry and went to see. He was not there. I went to the street to look for him. I looked — I called — ” Again she bent her head.

Wang the Third also sat down on the steps. He controlled his anger and tried to think. He thought a long time and then began to tell his daughter the events of the last few days, hoping that possibly among these events, they could find some hint of the cause for the loss of the child.

When she had heard her father’s story young Mrs.Chien stood up. “The child has been stolen by the Japanese.”

“Japanese?”

“They have arrested my father-in-law and stolen my child. With the child beside him — even with a heart of iron — the old man would have to say whatever they wanted him to say. They might even torture my child to death. You are good — for those three houses of yours you have wiped out the Chien family!”

Wang the Third was unable to say a word. Exhaustion, anger, shame, made him stare stupidly at the wall of the compound.

Sergeant Pai came the next day. He told Wang the Third that Mr.Chien was indeed in prison but had not been tortured.

This news he had learned from the fortune papers in the little temple. On the fortune papers were other messages but he could not tell Wang the Third of these.

“Oh — he hasn’t been tortured.” Wang the Third smiled.

“Hum — the Japanese will soon be defeated, they dare not strike. His mother’s — ! A herd of Things that bully the weak and flee from the tough!”

“But my grandson is lost.” Wang the Third stopped smiling.

“Lost?” Sergeant Pai stood still.

“Lost.”

“Also the Japanese?”

Wang the Third could not answer. He wanted only to slap his own face but his arm was too heavy to lift. After sitting silent a long time he asked, “Could you make inquiries?”

Sergeant Pai knew that he could not but he was unwilling to refuse and leave Wang the Third without hope. “I’ll try. I’ll do the best I can.”

Sergeant Pai took his leave. He knew that the trouble in the Wang family was very serious but there was nothing he could do. He had his own work. Rey Shuan and he had deciphered the message on the fortune paper:

1. Mr.Chien is in prison but has not been tortured because the Japanese hope to persuade him to join them.
2. The monk, Clear Moon, for the time being cannot be active. Spies follow him constantly.
3. Rey Tang's work takes him more and more outside the city and he cannot come often to Peiping.
4. Rey Shuan should take over Mr.Chien’s work as editor of the underground paper and find ways to send the script outside the city. A smart man who can use his legs is required.

Rey Shuan was willing to be the editor. Sergeant Pai was willing to be the messenger. They both knew that the work might cost them their heads, but both, without the slightest hesitation, decided to accept the assignment. The two of them looked with complete absorption at the fortune paper, and then looked at each other and smiled as if to say, “If one must die it is happier and simpler to die in this way.”

Sergeant Pai had to go every day outside the city with the script and bring back the news. Every day he had to change his route and every day he had to change his make-up. He had a small peddling business for camouflage.

He came often to the Little Sheep Fold but not to see Rey Shuan. He and Rey Shuan had already planned not to meet in the neighborhood of the Little Sheep Fold. He came to visit John Ting. He told John Ting all about his business, his difficulties, and other little matters, so that John Ting should not suspect him. If only John Ting did not suspect him there was no other person in the Little Sheep Fold who would start rumors about him.

Young Mrs.Chien went on the streets every day hunting for her son. Her life was divided into separate halves — one half dead and the other half alive. She was dead to food and drink and her housework, but she lived when she walked and shouted as she went to all parts of the city to look for her child. She went up and down the streets, looking to the east and to the west. Whenever she saw a boy about the size of her son she would go over quickly, and often frightened the child. When she saw that he was not her son she would not cry out nor would she say anything, but would pat the child very lightly on the head.

After a day of searching she would go home as if by instinct. She would not say a word to her father — it was as if he were no longer her father. In the night she would kneel in the courtyard and murmur, “Father of my child, protect your son.” She could say only this one sentence, and would repeat it over and over.

Wang the Third clenched his big fists often until the bones ground. He hired people to help him look for the child. Those he hired — beating brass gongs — went into all the residence streets and shouted. He also asked people to write many posters which he put up in all parts of the city.

The Japanese told him that Mr.Chien was in prison and being treated well, and told him not to worry. The best way, the Japanese said, would be for him and his daughter to write a letter to Mr.Chien urging him not to be so stubborn. If Mr.Chien would co-operate with them, not only would Mr.Chien have a high official position but it would also be advantageous to Wang the Third.

Wang the Third inquired about his grandson. The Japanese only smiled slightly and said nothing, and so he knew that — nine chances out of ten — the child had been stolen by them, and that if Mr.Chien were determined not to co-operate then would then deal with the child. Wang the Third could only promise to write to Mr.Chien. If the letter had any effect perhaps the child would not suffer for the time being. He asked a friend to write the letter and gave it to the Japanese.

When he had delivered the letter he regretted it. He knew the disposition of his relative — how strong and stubborn it was. Suppose that seeing his letter Mr.Chien was even more determined not to co-operate with the Japanese, would Wang the Third not have killed the child?

He went again to plead with the Japanese to let him go and see Mr.Chien. He thought that if once he could see his relative he could explain everything, and be forgiven; but the Japanese shook their heads.



Chapter Twenty-Three

GERMANY SURRENDERED unconditionally.

Peiping’s newspapers dared not discuss the reasons for the surrender but tried to divert attention by saying that the Imperial Army of Japan would fight to the end, and that even if the allied forces should invade the homeland, Japan could not be conquered. The “sacred war” discussed in this way seemed somewhat shopworn.

The Japanese living in Peiping worked all the harder to make friends with the Chinese, and now it was not on instructions from their officials but on their own initiative. Some Japanese even went so far as to become sworn brothers with Chinese, or acknowledged old ladies in Peiping as their “sworn mothers.”

During this period the Japanese Army had to show its leniency by letting go a few prisoners who were not yet quite dead. They also selected a few young Chinese from the prisons whose bones were not yet broken and told them to write confessions, and then sent them into the interior to seek the news of peace and to spread rumors of peace. “The Japanese military love peace. How wonderful it would be if now China and Japan should make peace and together fight against England and America.”

Except for the Japanese the busiest were the traitors. Their greatest talent was to turn the rudder when the wind changed. Even the surrender of Germany meant they must do something. Some of them quickly announced that they had divorced their wives so that even if they themselves could not escape the most severe punishment, their wives and children could still have their property. Some of them sent their children secretly to the interior, hoping they could keep a foot in each boat and lessen their guilt in selling their country. Some of them sent close friends or relatives to the interior to join the Chinese, to make it seem that their surrender to the enemy had really been underground work for the Chinese.

Even in the Little Sheep Fold, Commissioner of Education Niu — who lived in the house with the four willow trees outside the gate and had never admitted that he was a traitor — could no longer remain calm. He could no longer be absorbed in his collection of books and scientific equipment but tried to slip secretly away from Peiping. He got only as far as the Chien Men Station and was caught by the Japanese and put in prison.

On the wave of leniency the storyteller, Fang the Sixth, with the black mole on his face, was freed from prison.

The people of the Little Sheep Fold were more interested in the release of Fang the Sixth than they were in the arrest of Commissioner Niu. They surrounded Fang the Sixth like a swarm of bees and comforted him. Although when he was arrested they had not had the courage to sign their names to get him out, since he was out they could not be cold to him.

Fang the Sixth was no longer the Fang the Sixth they had known. He would no longer tell funny stories at any moment. He had been in prison; he had seen death and torture.

He soon began telling stories again to earn his living, but he went with his head hanging and he came home the same way. He could not go back to the broadcasting station, and the tea shops would not engage him as they had done before. He could only go to the amusement park at the Bridge of Heaven, and to the temple fairs in the east and west cities, to tell his stories in the open air and earn a few coppers.

Whether it was at the Bridge of Heaven or elsewhere, he would frequently use the most poisonous words to reveal his hatred. He not only made his audience laugh, but he would also take the opportunity to speak in irony and sarcasm about current events, and so stimulate the patriotism of the audience.

The audiences were able to catch his inferences and innuendoes, so when he told his stories he was always surrounded by so thick a crowd that even the wind could not get through. They all liked to hear the jests and stories that had strength and sinews and could carry their hatred.

He even went to Rey Shuan to ask him to explain the new terms in the papers, and the news which he could not understand.

Rey Shuan was pleased to be a volunteer teacher but he warned Fang the Sixth not to come too often, and that it would be better to meet in the streets where they could use the time while Rey Shuan went to school or came back, and talk on the way. Since Rey Shuan had taken Mr.Chien’s place as editor of the underground paper he had to be very careful. If Fang the Sixth came to see him and John Ting should see them, there would very likely be trouble.

If Rey Shuan liked Fang the Sixth, he despised John Ting. When John Ting heard that Germany had surrendered he began to come often to see Rey Shuan. Rey Shuan was most fearful that John Ting should see his manuscripts, but he dared not refuse to see him, and say that he was busy.

John Ting thought that Germany had been defeated by England alone. He did not know much about world affairs, but he always had his own point of view about the international situation.

Next to England, John Ting most admired Germany. German bicycles and chemical dyes were perhaps the main reasons for his admiration of Germany. In his conversation he liked to say, “Outside of English goods one must count the German brands as the best.” This kind of speech was to show that he understood world affairs. Before the word Germany he always put the word “old” as though he and Germany were old neighbors.

He must try to be friendly with Rey Shuan. All his goods and chattels! Suppose the English Palace opened its doors again one day, and Rey Shuan should tell them that John Ting had had dealings with the Japanese — could he endure that?

He talked with Rey Shuan about how much more powerful England was than Germany. He would also ask Rey Shuan’s advice.- “Suppose Japan is also defeated, should we not kill all the Japanese in Peiping?”

Rey Shuan could not make any answer, and wished only that he could kick John Ting out with one swift kick.

When Rey Shuan did not answer John Ting thought that what he had said was right, and quickly added, “In our Little Sheep Fold, I am Head of the Li, so wait and see. It would be strange if I did not show the people in house Number One and Number Three. Mr.Chi, you are my witness to prove that from the beginning to the end I have always been a man of the English Palace. When Mr.Goodrich comes back I can go again and serve the old gentleman. Am I not right?”

Rey Shuan knew that if he should say “Yes,” John Ting would immediately bow and ask Rey Shuan to be kind to him, as though whether he could get back to the English Palace or not depended on Rey Shuan’s words. If he should say “No,” John Ting would certainly ask for detailed explanations, and he had no time to waste words with this running dog.

Cheng Chang Shun brought Rey Shuan a piece of news. Chang Shun told him that recently the Japanese had begun to sell things. Chang Shun himself had not bought anything from them because he was unwilling to trade with the Japanese, but he had been stopped by them, and had seen others of his profession buying from them. “Mr.Chi, judging from this it would seem that the Japanese are really going to be defeated. They are selling their odds and ends to get a bit of money for returning to their homes.”

Rey Shuan could not but admit that Chang Shun was right.

“Mr.Chi, have you noticed that from the time Germany surrendered,” Chang Shuns nasal tones said, “the Japanese have changed their manner? They now bow to us and smile at us. And see, the people of house Number Three always have their gate closed as if they were afraid that someone might go in and kill them.”

One day Rey Shuan received an unexpected letter. Although the letter was signed with a false signature he saw at a glance that it was Old Three’s writing. He wondered how Old Three dared to send a letter in this way to his home. Old Three’s letters had always been sent through some secret channel and had never come through the post office.

After he had read a few sentences he began to feel easy. A letter such as this could not make any trouble even if it were seen by the censors.

“I have seen our fat sister-in-law at the Drowned Horse Lake. Her goods have all been confiscated and she can do nothing but sell her fat flesh. There are running sores between her fingers. I do not pity her and I do not revile her. She will very likely rot there.”

Rey Shuan could guess that the fat sister-in-law must be Fat Chrysanthemum, and although he did not know where the Drowned Horse Lake was, he could guess from between the lines that it could not be a respectable place. He went to ask Fang the Sixth. Fang the Sixth told him that it was the main district in Tientsin for the lowest houses of prostitution.

While the Japanese in Peiping were busying themselves to secure adopted mothers and to sell their possessions, the Chinese in Japan were seeking every means to get back to China. The homeland of Japan was suffering from severe air raids. And they — whether traitors or students — were not willing to lose their lives and money in Japan. Seeing the bombs they remembered their own homeland.

In Peiping, those who had thought of going to Japan now all feared that they might be sent to Japan to attend meetings or on business. They thought of all means to avoid being sent. Their lives were more important than anything else. They could not go to places where bombs fell like rain.

Lan the Eastern Sun only was still fired with the idea of going to Japan. He had been ill for a long time. While ill a Japanese doctor and nurse had watched him constantly. The Japanese doctor, under orders from the Japanese militarists, could let him live or die as they commanded. If, while delirious, Eastern Sun had said a word or two that showed he was not satisfied with the Japanese, the doctor could have given him poison and let his eyes roll up and never come down again. But Eastern Sun, even when delirious, still shouted, “Ten thousand years to the Heavenly Emperor !” This not only touched the hearts of the doctor and the nurse, but caused them also to make a good report and to praise him as a Chinese most loyal to the Emperor. They nursed him carefully and did everything they could to cure him. They took X-rays of his whole body and sent the plates to Japan to be the material for scientific investigation, to see what special structures there were in his heart, brain, liver, and lungs, that could make him so faithful to Japan.

Eastern Sun was still afraid that Rey Tang’s bullet would fly into his heart. Having recovered from his illness he wanted to go to Japan and be out of danger of Rey Tang’s threats.

Because of his illness his position as Department Head in the New People’s League had been given to someone else. This did not make him unhappy because the Japanese doctor and nurse had both told him that if he went to Japan he would be given an even higher position. He believed what they told him.

Because of Commissioner Niu’s arrest, the position of Commissioner of Education was vacant. The Japanese began to think of Lan the Eastern Sun. He was their loyal servant and faithful dog. His good work was on record and they could trust him absolutely.

Yes, Eastern Sun would be glad to be the Commissioner of Education, hut he must first go to Japan in the name of investigating Japanese education. Suppose while he was in Japan, Rey Tang were caught and killed — could he not then come back in peace to be the Commissioner of Education? Moreover, who knew, he might in Japan marry a Japanese wife. Would he not then be a Prince Consort to Japan?

Lan the Eastern Sun went to Japan.

Those who had planned to see him off were disappointed, because he had disguised himself, and protected by two secret police^ had quietly and in the night left Peiping. He had been afraid to go to the station and have a fuss made over him — that would certainly have attracted Rey Tang, who might have shot him.

Those who had prepared gifts for him, to see him off, sighed after he had left, and said to each other, “That man Lan will do, after all. Japan is bombed every day and yet he dares to go. That is what I call being a good Son of Han. Hum — look at us — we want to eat but are afraid of the heat of the stove! We will never get anywhere.” But it did not enter their minds that Eastern Sun could go to Japan and never come back. Not even a splinter of his bones was ever found.

Lan the Eastern Sun and the five-thousand-year-old culture of his race had no connection whatsoever. His cunning and ruthlessness were still barbarous. He belonged to the ages of man eat man, dog eat dog. When he met the war, the war started by the Japanese war lords, his dog-eat-dog philosophy fitted exactly with that of the Japanese war lords, so he was able to push up to high position, and with them use the language of men and the bodies of men to display the ruthlessness and cunning of beasts.

What kind of world there should be he had never thought. He was a fly — knowing only his own satisfaction when he had sucked a drop of blood or eaten a piece of manure. The world had nothing to do with him. If only he had a piece of offal to eat the world was a beautiful world. He had never considered a world without firearms, bombs, and war; and so he had never thought whether the world should have firearms, bombs, and war.

Science had reached beyond all other realms of human thought and had invented the atom bomb. Just as blundering and stupid as the Japanese who had never thought what the world should be, just as blundering and stupid as Eastern Sun’s barbarous cunning and ruthlessness, was the creation of the atom bomb by those who had never thought what the world should be. That atomic energy was first used for war is the greatest shame of the human race. It was in this shame to the human race that Lan the Eastern Sun met a weapon of death more cunning and ruthless than he. He did not see the beginning of the new age, but succeeded only in scattering his bones in the old age — the age of man eat man, and dog eat dog.



Chapter Twenty-four

IF THE HORRORS of war could be shown in the eyes of a child they were shown in the eyes of Little Niu Niu.

Because of hunger she could not run and jump and play. Her neck was so thin it seemed very long, and this long thin neck seemed unable to support her head in spite of the fact that there was not much flesh on her face. Her old and worn trousers and coat were too short but were not tight for there were bones only left in her body. It was as though she were already half dead.

When she refused to eat Republic flour her little eyes would seem to say to the family that she had the dignity of her little life: she would not eat what dogs and pigs would not eat. Her determination could not be shaken. No one could force her. And no one, because of this, felt like scolding her. The anger in her eyes seemed to represent the hatred of war for them all.

When her anger was over she would half-open and half-shut her little eyes, and look stealthily at the family as though to apologize, to beg them to forgive her. She could not say, “In time of trouble such as this I should not lose my temper,” but her eyes said it for her. Then slowly she would shut her eyes and bury all her sufferings in her little heart.

Although her eyes were shut she knew that the grown people came often to see her and to sigh for her in secret. She knew that they would give her pity and love so she controlled herself and did not cry out. She must bear the pain in patience. War had taught her how to suffer in patience.

She would doze awhile and then when she again opened her eyes would force herself to smile, blinking her little eyes she cheated herself — she was a good Little Niu Niu that smiled as soon as she woke. And so she made all love her.

If, by good chance, the grown people had something for her to eat, her eyes would open wide; she would think only that that bit of food might help her to live. Her eyes would brighten as though she were about to sing — to praise life.

When she had eaten, her eyes would show a light like sunshine after a long rain, and would seem to say, “How easily life can be satisfied! With a little food we can continue to live happily.” At such a moment she would even remember the stories her grandmother told her.

But soon the smile in her eyes would disappear. She had not had enough to eat and wanted more. How small that piece of melon had been, or that shaoping. Why should she have so small a piece to eat? Why? But she would not ask. She knew that her brother, Little Precious, had not had even a small piece of melon.

Rey Shuan dared not look at his little daughter. The British and American navies were approaching the homeland of Japan. He knew that the war god of the east would before long surrender unconditionally as had Germany and Italy. He should be happy. But of what use to be victorious over Japan and not be able to save his little daughter? Life once gone could not come back again. What crime had Little Niu Niu committed that she should die like this?

Old Man Chi had lately had no energy to care for anything, but he would force himself to be concerned about Little Niu Niu. The oldest and youngest hearts meet easily. Whenever Yun Mei was able to get something other than Republic flour for him to eat, he would not even look at it, but would say to her, “Give it to Niu Niu. I have already reached the time to die, but Niu Niu — ” and then he would sigh deeply. He knew that even if Niu Niu got that bit of food it was doubtful whether she could become strong and healthy. He also thought of his son who had died, and of the two sons of his son who had disappeared. What if something should happen to the last of the four generations in one house! In the night when he could not sleep, he often prayed, “Heavenly Old Grandfather, take me back, take me back, but ten thousand, leave Little Niu Niu to the Chi family.”

Yun Mei’s maternal eyes had long ago seen the danger, but she could not enlarge upon the small signs and make the old people more worried. She would, on the contrary, often pretend to be unconcerned. “Nothing serious, nothing serious. Niu Niu is a little girl — little girls are hardy.”

Although she talked this way she suffered in her heart more than any. Niu Niu was her child. In her plans for the future Niu Niu was the center of her hopes. If she shut her eyes she could see Niu Niu growing into a beautiful young woman, see her marriage, her sons and daughters — and herself a grandmother, an old woman of dignity and position.

Little Precious was indeed important. From the point of view of the ancestors, he was to carry on the Chi family line, but he was a boy and Yun Mei could not put herself in his place and with her whole heart think and plan for him. Niu Niu was a girl and Yun Mei could use her own experience and think of Niu Niu’s future. Mother and daughter are a mutual necessity to each other.

Yun Mei dared not think that Niu Niu might die. Indeed, if Niu Niu died, half of Yun Mei would die. To say the most heartless thing — Old Man Chi and Mrs.Tien Yiu could die, but Niu Niu must live. Old people were like autumn leaves — they should drop off when the time comes. But Niu Niu was a fresh flower bud. Yun Mei wanted to take her in her arms as she had when Niu Niu was only two or three months old. She wanted Niu Niu to suck her breasts again while she fondled Niu Niu’s little hands and feet.

But Niu Niu was always with her grandmother. These two — the old one and the young one — were always together, like a body and its shadow. The grandmother’s life seemed to have no other use but to care for and comfort Niu Niu. Yun Mei could not take Niu Niu from her mother-in-law. Sometimes Yun Mei was almost jealous and wanted to snatch Niu Niu from Mrs.Tien Yiu, but she did not do it. She knew that her mother-in-law had had no daughters; Niu Niu was her granddaughter and also her daughter. And so Yun Mei would comfort her mother-in-law and say, “There is nothing much wrong with Niu Niu. She has no serious illness.” It was as though Niu Niu were not her daughter, but only the granddaughter of her mother-in-law.

While this little life was flickering between life and death, Rey Shuan received from Old Three so much good news that he could not use it all. The American Third Fleet was attacking Tokyo Bay. Russia, America, and England had made the Potsdam agreement. The first atom bomb had been dropped on Hiroshima.

The weather was hot. Rey Shuan sweated day and night to select and edit, to get and send away the manuscripts. He still pretended to be calm, but his eyes shone and his heart beat fast. He forgot the weakness of his body and felt that he had limitless energy, and refused to be idle a moment. He wanted to sing to celebrate the ending of the greatest tragedy of humankind.

Besides reporting the messages of victory he wanted to write his hopes for the future world. He hoped that no one — after this greatest of all lessons taught in blood—would again try to solve problems by force. But he did not write out these ideas. His underground paper was too small for writing of this kind.

But he told his hopes to the students in the classroom. He saw mankind as slaves of weapons. He looked down on them because they were slaves. But he also felt happy that mankind could be soft and could, after war, make peace. If mankind could be disarmed, and no longer be slaves of weapons, there would be hope for peace.

But when he looked at Niu Niu his heart turned cold. Niu Niu did not allow him to have any hope for tomorrow. In his heart he prayed, “Victory is before us. Niu Niu, you mustn’t die! Live another half year, another month, perhaps only ten days — Little Niu Niu, you will see peace.”

His prayer had not the slightest effect. Victory could not save Niu Niu. Victory was only the ending of the war, and could not bring those who had died to life, or keep those severely wounded from dying.

When Niu Niu had no way but to eat a mouthful of Republic flour she always washed it down with water or soup. The sand and the husks in the flour accumulated in her appendix. She had acute appendicitis.

A spasm of pain — as if the pain of the eight long years of war had all concentrated in one place — made her curl up into a ball. Cold sweat came out over her whole body so that her old worn coat and trousers were wet through. She screamed shrilly a couple of times. Her lips turned blue and her eyeballs rolled upward.

The whole family were around her, and no one knew what to do. Just as in the war, they could think of no good way to act.

Seeing Niu Niu motionless Old Man Chi called loudly, “Niu Niu, dear one, wake up, Niu Niu, wake up.”

Niu Niu’s two thin legs, as thin as kaoliang stalks, stretched out. Mrs.Tien Yiu and Yun Mei both rushed to take her up, but Yun Mei let the grandmother take the child. Mrs.Tien Yiu held her granddaughter and called softly, “Niu Niu, Niu Niu.” Little Niu Niu had no strength left and lay gasping for breath.

“I’ll go for a doctor.” As if suddenly waking from a dream Rey Shuan rushed out of the room.

There was another spasm of pain and Little Niu Niu writhed in her grandmother’s arms with all the strength she had left. Mrs.Tien Yiu could not hold her and let her down again on the bed.

Niu Niu’s little undernourished body could not resist the evil within. She writhed a few times, her eyes rolled up, and she did not move again.

Mrs.Tien Yiu placed her hand on Niu Niu’s lips. There was no breath. Niu Niu did not open her eyes to look at her grandmother, did not call, “Mother,” in her sweet voice.

Mrs.Tien Yiu’s whole body was covered with cold sweat. Her hand was still stretched out, and she could neither move nor weep. She stood before the little bed in a daze and her mind was blank. This great sorrow had made her forget how to weep.

Seeing that Niu Niu did not move Yun Mei fell over her little daughter’s body, embracing that motionless form still wet from tears and sweat. She also forgot how to weep and could only put her mouth on little Niu Niu’s chest and call wildly, “Niu Niu, my flesh, my Niu Niu.” Little Precious wept aloud.

Old Man Chi, shaking and groping, sat on a chair and hung his head. In the room there was only the sound of Yun Mei’s cries and the weeping of Little Precious.

The old man sat with his head hanging for a long time, and then he suddenly stood up. Slowly but with determination he walked toward the little bed. He took hold of Yun Mei’s shoulder and tried to pull her away.

Yun Mei held Niu Niu all the tighter. Niu Niu had been born of her, and now it seemed as if she wanted again to be one body with her little daughter.

Old Man Chi, half-angry and half-pleading, said, “Get away, get away.”

Yun Mei heard her grandfather’s voice and cried wildly, “What do you want?”

The old man pulled again and Yun Mei sat on the ground. The old man picked up Little Niu Niu, and calling, “Niu Niu,” he walked toward the door. “Niu Niu, come with your great-grand-father.” Niu Niu’s only answer was the slight movement of her legs as they swung.

Staggering, the old man carried Niu Niu into the courtyard. Sweat ran from his forehead. Only one or two of the buttons on his short coat were fastened so a piece of his hard dry chest showed. He stood still below the steps. He was gasping as if he were afraid he would forget what he was to do. He held Niu Niu more tightly and still called in a low voice, “Niu Niu, come with me, come.”

The old man’s low calls brought Mrs.Tien Yiu out. She looked straight ahead and moving rigidly followed the old man like an automaton, as if the old man were not calling Niu Niu but calling her.

By this time Yun Mei’s cries and the weeping of Little Precious had brought quite a few of the neighbors.

John Ting because of his position as Head of the Li stood in front of the group. His expression showed that if there were anything to be said he must be the one to say it.

Fourth Mistress Li was now almost blind, but her warmhearted helpfulness and sincerity were as in the old days. Walking with a stick she still busied herself helping others, as if after the “Old Thing” had died she must alone be responsible for helping the neighbors.

Cheng Chang Shun, with Little Victory in his arms, stood behind Fourth Mistress Li. He was now like a middle-aged man, but Little Victory was a handsome boy, though not very plump.

Old Widow Ma had not come in. Although she was greatly concerned that such weeping should come from the Chi home, she stood outside the gate and waited patiently for Chang Shun to come and tell her everything.

The storyteller Fang the Sixth and many others stood silently in the courtyard.

Old Man Chi walked with determination but still he walked very slowly. To keep from falling his feet thrust to the left and to the right and so he could not walk quickly.

Rey Shuan with the doctor rushed into the courtyard. When he had rounded the spirit screen and saw the neighbors in the courtyard he pushed through them and came face to face with his grandfather.

The doctor came over and took hold of Niu Niu’s wrist which was already stiffening.

Old Man Chi suddenly stood still and lifted his head. He saw the doctor. “What do you want?” he shouted angrily.

The doctor paid no attention to the old man’s anger but said quietly to Rey Shuan, “The child is dead.”

Rey Shuan did not seem to hear the doctor but with tears in his eyes went over and took his grandfather’s arm. The doctor went away.

“Grandfather, where are you taking Niu Niu? She is already — ” The word “dead” seemed to stick in Rey Shuan’s throat.

“Stand aside!” The old man’s legs could scarcely move but he still wanted to go forward. “I am going to let the Japanese devils in house Number Three see this. They took away our grain. Their children have grain to eat, but they have starved my great-grand-daughter. I am going to show them. Stand aside!”



Chapter Twenty-five

WHILE OLD MAN CHI was struggling to go out of the courtyard, the Japanese of house Number Three had already bolted the gate of their compound. They had also piled many things against the gate as if to guard against street-to-street fighting.

They had already received word of Japan’s surrender.

They were very frightened. When their war lords had drummed up the war they had not had the courage to stop it. When the battles went well they forgot the guilt of war and felt only its satisfaction and glory. Even if they themselves had not wanted to kill people, how many Chinese had not their soldiers killed?

After bolting and barricading the gate they all went into one room and wept soundlessly. War was now a nightmare. Glory and privilege had suddenly disappeared. They must give up beautiful Peiping, their handsome house, and their own livelihood, and be sent back like prisoners to their own land. And there was the possibility, if the Chinese neighbors should now come for revenge, that they might lose their lives.

While they wept silently they listened for sounds from outside. If the news of the Japanese surrender got to the Chinese ears would not the Chinese, with swords, spears, and sticks, knock down their gates and split their heads? They did not think of the crime of having started the war but thought only of the shame and fear of defeat. At most they felt only that war was not a dependable thing.

The old Japanese woman in house Number One opened the two halves of her gate. When the gate was opened she smiled to herself as if to say, “Let those who wish revenge come. We oppressed you for eight years; now you should take revenge. This would be justice.”

Standing inside the threshold she looked at the big locust trees outside the gate. She was not elated by the news of the defeat of the Japanese army, but she did not feel any shame. She had been antiwar from the beginning. She had long known that those who blindly believed in force would bring disaster on themselves. She stood quietly in the gate and in her heart was sadness. The war was over, but what of those thousands and hundreds of thousands dead?

She walked out of the gate. She should go to the neighbors and tell them that Japan had surrendered. This was nothing to be ashamed of. The surrender of Japan was the inevitable result of blindly worshipping force. She could not because she was a Japanese refuse to admit this truth. At the same time she should become good friends with the Chinese and make for her and them a friendship built on foundations above revenge and hatred.

As soon as she came out of the gate she walked inevitably toward the gate of the Chi family. She had always considered that Old Man Chi represented some kind of dignity, but she felt that she understood Rey Shuan. Rey Shuan used English to talk with her; his-attitudes and knowledge were such as to make her like and respect him. She had traveled all over the world, and Rey Shuan had never been outside the city of Peiping, yet what she knew he knew also. No, he not only knew but was understanding about world affairs, and had definite hope for the future of mankind.

Just as she reached the threshold of the Chi family gate, Old Man Chi carrying Niu Niu came around the spirit screen. Rey Shuan was supporting his grandfather. The Japanese woman stood still. In a glance she saw that Niu Niu was dead. She had come to please the Chi family, and to talk with Rey Shuan about the future relations between China and Japan; but she saw a half-dead old man carrying a dead child — as if half-dead China embraced thousands and tens of thousands of dead sons. What was the difference between victory and defeat? What was the good of victory? The day of victory should be cursed and should be wept.

The shame of surrender had not made her downhearted but the death of Little Niu Niu made her lose her self-confidence and courage. She started to go back home.

Old Man Chi’s eyes moved from Niu Niu to the gate. It seemed as if he could not recognize the gate through which he had come in and gone out a thousand times, and felt only that it was a place through which to go out and find the Japanese. He saw the old Japanese woman.

The old woman, like Old Man Chi, loved peace and had lost the young people of her family; she should have been able to go forward to the old man without any sense of shame, but a war of aggression makes the militarists arrogant and the people with conscience feel ashamed. She was after all a citizen of Japan. She felt that she should carry some of the responsibility for the death of Little Niu Niu. She backed a few steps. Before Old Man Chi she felt that she was guilty.

Old Man Chi without stopping to think shouted, “Stand still, look, look!” He lifted Niu Niu’s thin corpse for the old Japanese woman to see.

The old woman stood silent. She wanted to turn and run but it was as though the old man held her fast.

Rey Shuan, still supporting his grandfather, called quietly, “Grandfather, Grandfather.” He knew that the death of Little Niu Niu had nothing to do with the old woman of house Number One, and he knew that his grandfather had always respected the old woman; but he dared not argue with his grandfather for the old man was already half-dead and half-alive, half-conscious and half in a stupor.

The old man, still staggering, went forward. The neighbors silently followed him.

The old woman seeing the old man was coming closer seemed to brace herself. She had some fear of the old man, but she knew that he was a righteous man and that if it were not for the death of Niu Niu he would not have made this scene. She must tell them that Japan had surrendered so they could have a little comfort.

In English she said to Rey Shuan, “Tell your grandfather that Japan has surrendered.”

Rey Shuan did not seem to understand and asked himself in Chinese, “Japan surrendered?” and looked again at the old woman.

The old woman nodded slightly.

Rey Shuan suddenly began to tremble. Trembling and in a daze he placed his hand on Little Niu Niu’s body.

“What did she say?” Old Man Chi asked in a loud voice.

Holding one of Niu Niu's little cold hands Rey Shuan looked at her little face and said to himself, “Victory, Niu Niu, but you - ”

“What did she say?” the old man shouted again.

Rey Shuan quickly let go Niu Niu’s hand and looked at his grandfather and at the neighbors. He smiled with tears in his eyes. He wanted to shout, “We’ve won the war,” but in a low voice and as if unwillingly he said to his grandfather, “Japan has surrendered.” When he had told them the tears streamed down his face. The sufferings of the last eight years in his mind and body seemed to weigh a thousand and ten thousand catties.

Although Rey Shuan’s voice had been very low, the words, “Japan has surrendered,” were like the wind that blows, and reached the ears of all the neighbors.

All immediately forgot the death of Little Niu Niu, forgot to pity Old Man Chi and Rey Shuan, forgot to care for Yun Mei and Mrs.Tien Yiu. Everyone wanted to do something and say something . They seemed to want to run out to see what victory looked like and to open their mouths and shout, “Ten thousand years to the Chinese Republic.” Even Old Man Chi seemed to forget what he had been about to do, and could only look at this one and look at that one. Sorrow and joy and confusion were all mixed together.

The old Japanese woman suddenly became the target of all eyes. She was now no longer a peace-loving old Japanese woman with ideals; she was a Japanese and the symbol of force, invasion, and slaughter. Those eyes all carried the fire of hate and bored into her. What should she do? She could not defend herself with words. Words on the day of settlement were of no use. She knew she had no guilt but she could not speak. It seemed that she had to share in the crime of the Japanese militarists. In spite of the fact that her ideals were above national boundaries and race she had — because of her country and her race -— to be charged with the crime.

She looked at the people before her and suddenly felt that she did not know them. They were no longer her neighbors but people who hated her and perhaps even wanted to kill her. She knew that these neighbors were gentle people and easy to deal with, yet who could guarantee that today they would not become delirious and want revenge?

Yun Mei had stopped weeping. She went to her grandfather and took Niu Niu from him. What had victory to do with her? She asked only to hold Niu Niu a little longer.

Holding Niu Niu’s little dead body tightly Yun Mei walked slowly back into the courtyard. She bent her head and looked at Niu Niu’s greyish, thin, and quiet little face, and called in a low voice, “Niu Niu,” as if Niu Niu were only sleeping.

Old Man Chi turned and followed her. “Mother of Little Precious , did you hear? Japan has surrendered. Mother of Little Precious, don’t weep any more. We have good days before us. Just now I was out of my mind with grief. I wanted to take Niu Niu to find the Japanese. I was wrong. I should not have thought of desecrating Niu Niu that way. Mother of Little Precious, find some clean clothes for Niu Niu, wash her face. Don’t let her enter her little coffin with tears on her face. Mother of Little Precious, don’t worry. The Japanese devils will soon have all rolled away, and we will be able, peacefully and happily, to live our lives. You and the Eldest are still young and can bear more children.”

Yun Mei seemed not to hear the old man’s pleading, his efforts to comfort her. She walked forward slowly, calling in a low voice, “Niu Niu.”

Mrs.Tien Yiu was still standing in the courtyard, and when she saw Yun Mei she followed her. She seemed to know that Yun Mei would not be willing to let her take Niu Niu, so she only followed her daughter-in-law.

Fourth Mistress Li had been standing with Mrs.Tien Yiu and now without thinking she followed the mother and daughter-in-law. The three women slowly went into the room.

At this moment — beyond the screen — the storyteller Fang the Sixth said loudly to his neighbors, “Neighbors, we should today take our revenge.” The words were addressed to all the neighbors but his eyes were on the old Japanese woman.

All heard the words of Fang the Sixth but did not understand what he meant. They were all people of Peiping who could bear disaster with patience and who did not think of vengeance when the disaster had passed. They always followed history but never thought of creating or changing history. Even when contrary winds blew they would still live by their never-changing philosophy for living in the world. Behind this philosophy was the belief that evil had its own evil reward — there was no need for them to strike back at their enemies. How terrible the Japanese had been — yet Japan had surrendered. Eight years of occupation, how long that had been! But compared with the six or seven hundred years of the history of Peiping, what did eight years count? No one moved.

Fang the Sixth began to explain to them, “We have had eight years of suffering, and not a day on which anyone dared say that his head would not come off his body. Should we not today give them a little bitterness to eat? Even if you dare not kill should you not at least spit upon them?”

The always mild and gentle Cheng Chang Shun agreed with Fang the Sixth. “Right, even if we don’t beat or kill them, should we not spit squarely in their faces?” In his nasal tones he shouted, “Come on!”

All started toward the old Japanese woman. She did not understand what they had been saying but she could see that their attitude was hostile. She wanted to walk away but she did not move. She straightened her back and waited bravely for their attack. She must suffer their insults and blows; only so could she lessen her guilt and that of the other Japanese.

Rey Shuan had been sitting all this time on the ground as though he had lost consciousness. Suddenly he stood up and with one step came between the old woman and the crowd. His face still had no color, but his eyes were bright. Lifting his chest he seemed suddenly taller. Determined but still gentle, he said, “What are you planning to do?”

None of them, not even Fang the Sixth, dared reply. Chinese respect men of scholarship. Rey Shuan fitted their ideal and was the only one among them who was educated.

“Are you planning first to beat this old lady?” Rey Shuan emphasized the words “old lady.”

Everyone looked at Rey Shuan and looked at the old Japanese woman. Fang the Sixth was the first to shake his head. No one was willing to hurt an old woman.

Rey Shuan turned and said to the Japanese woman, “You had better go.”

The old woman sighed, bowed to all, turned and walked away.

After the old woman had gone John Ting came in.

As soon as he saw John Ting come in Fang the Sixth thought he had reinforcements. Ever since the defeat of Germany, John Ting had told them all that when Japan was defeated they should deal properly with the Japanese in Peiping.

“John, what do you think? Should we not go to house Number Three and give those Japanese a lesson?”

“What’s happened?” John Ting had not heard the news.

“Japan is finished, surrendered,” Fang the Sixth answered in a loud voice.

John Ting closed his eyes as he was in the habit of doing in church when he said “Amen.” Then without a word he turned and started to run.

“Where are you going?” Rey Shuan asked him.

“I—I’m going to the English Palace,” John Ting shouted.



Chapter Twenty-six

IN CHUNGKING, in Chengtu, in Kunming, in Sian, and in many other cities the people were cheering, singing, and weeping aloud because they were so happy; but Peiping was silent. The Japanese soldiers in Peiping had not yet been disarmed. The Japanese gendarmes still patrolled the streets.

The sorrow and pain of a conquered nation could not be swept away by victory as one wipes the dust off a table. But there was one gay thing: the Japanese took down their rising sun flags and the Chinese hung out the flags with the blue sky and the white sun. There were no processions, no salvos of cannon, no cheers, but the flag with the blue sky and the white sun gave the people comfort.

The White Pagoda in the North Sea Park still stood proudly. The lotus in the lakes had still their red or white petals and wanted gave out their fragrance. The altars, temples, and palaces still shone majestically in their gold and green light. Those old and heavily glazed tiles seemed always to be newly made.

Peiping was quiet. In the whole city in this time of victory there was no disturbance. The Japanese had been too hasty when they closed and blocked their gates.

The most silent, perhaps, was the Chi family. Rey Shuan helped his grandfather to his room and the old man sat on the edge of his bed and held Rey Shuan’s hand. The old man thought of the difficulties of the past eight years and wanted to curse in a loud voice. He thought of his dead son, and grandson, and great-grand-daughter and wanted to weep loudly.

Slowly he loosened Rey Shuan’s hand and slowly lay down. Rey Shuan called Little Precious and told him to stay and keep the old man company.

Little Precious was glad to have this responsibility. He dared not go to the room where Niu Niu lay, and he did not want to stay alone in the courtyard. Without Niu Niu it seemed there was no place for him. To stay with the great-grandfather was something to do. Obediently he let the old man hold his hand.

The old man shut his eyes as if he were going to sleep but the warmth of Little Precious’hand seemed to flow through the old man’s hands into his heart. He felt that he was not only alive and holding his great-grandson’s hand — the oldest one and the youngest one who had not been killed by the war — but he seemed to be lying on a cloud and to be dissolving into the cloud. He held Little Precious’ hand more tightly. Little Precious would enjoy peace, have sons and daughters, and the Chi family would never cease to have sons for the worship of the ancestors. He held the hand of Little Precious even more tightly so that the old hand and the young hand seemed to become one. The old man opened his eyes as if he wanted to say to Little Precious, “You and I are the two extremes of the four generations in one house, we must both live. What is war if we two can live? And even if I die, you must live to be my age and have your own four generations in one house.”

Little Precious seeing that the old man had opened his eyes wanted to talk. He said, “Great-grandfather, are you awake?”

The old man did not answer but closed his eyes again, and on his face there was a slight smile.

Rey Shuan walked around the courtyard a few times and looked through the glass into the room. His mother and his wife were sitting at the head of the bed looking at Niu Niu. His tears fell suddenly and he went away and stood under the date tree.

His head ached and he could not concentrate. The death of Niu Niu seemed to have crossed out all that he had struggled for in the last eight years.

While Rey Shuan was standing under the date tree Sergeant Pai and Wang the Third came in.

Sergeant Pai was sweating from exertion. With one hand he wiped the sweat from his head. The other he stretched out to Rey Shuan. “Ha — Mr.Chi, we have won the victory!” He wanted to shake Rey Shuan’s hand affectionately, but seeing Rey Shuan’s sorrowful face he withdrew his hand. “What has happened, Mr.Chi?"

Before Rey Shuan could answer Wang the Third said, “Mr.Chi, help me. We have won the war, why don’t we go immediately to find Mr.Chien and my grandson? I beg you to help me find out where they are.”

Rey Shuan wanted very much to go at once with Wang the Third to search for Mr.Chien. But he could nor rouse himself nor could he go away and leave the two women watching Niu Niu’s body. Who knew but that the mother, in the severity of her grief, might not faint or even die. He pointed to the room.

Sergeant Pai went over and Wang the Third followed him.

Sergeant Pai looked through the glass into the room. Having been a police officer for many years, he was acquainted with all manner of sorrowful occasion. He knew that he must find a way to make those two women weep aloud. If they made no sound but sat there staring at Niu Niu there could be serious trouble, especially with Mrs.Tien Yiu.

“Mr.Chi, you must start to weep aloud,” Sergeant Pai said in a low voice to Rey Shuan. “If you weep aloud they will have to weep with you. They must weep aloud or the pain in their hearts will suffocate them, kill them.”

Rey Shuan had not decided whether to follow Sergeant Pai’s advice or not when a man and a woman came in from outside.

The man was like a slender black pagoda, tall and thin but with a body strong and hard. His head was bare and the hair cut closely like that of a soldier. His face was thin and hard and dark, and there was a light of satisfaction in his black bean eyes. He was wearing a student’s uniform that was two or three sizes too small. The coat barely reached his waist and the trousers showed half his leg. Although his clothes had no style and were unbecoming he wore them with a contented and simple air. His head was held high and there was a smile on his hard cheeks. His right hand held Kaodee’s hand.

Kaodee's was also thin, and because of this her thick lips were better to look upon. There were many smile wrinkles on her short nose. Her hair had not been curled and there was no lipstick on her lips. She seemed to have shaken off entirely all the imfluences of Big Red Pepper and Meydee and — without any make-up — to reveal her real self. Her head was also held high as though she were looking at Old Three’s cheeks or at the blue sky.

As they rounded the spirit screen Old There shouted in a loud voice, “Mother.” His voice was so loud that Wang the Third jumped. Rey Tang had not intended to make such a noise but had shouted involuntarily. The word that he had not used for so many years seemed to spring out of itself.

“Old Three,” Rey Shuan also shouted. He seemed to have forgotten for the moment that Little Niu Niu was dead. Old Three was the representative of China’s youth — the symbol of a brave and vigorous new China. When Rey Shuan reached them he also recognized Kaodee. With a hand for each he drew them toward him and the hot tears went round and round in his eyes.

Sergeant Pai wanted to greet Old Three but seeing that Rey Shuan had no intention of letting go Old Three’s hand he quietly stepped aside. He knew that when people of one family come together again they do not want strangers to intrude. “Let’s go.” Sergeant Pai was drawing Wang the Third out of the courtyard as he spoke.

Old Three’s voice had melted the ice in the room. Mrs.Tien Yiu had not wept the whole time but had sat there in a stupor looking at Niu Niu. When she heard the voice of Old Three her heart moved with such a movement as the child makes in its mother’s womb. Old Three, her baby, was in the courtyard calling her. She was alive again and the tears that had been held back so long suddenly began to fall. With Old Three back she felt that she did not have to watch Niu Niu any longer. Niu Niu was already dead but her own son was alive. The tears blinded her eyes and she groped her way out of the room.

As soon as she came out of the room Old Three let go his brother’s hand and rushed over to her.

Mrs.Tien Yiu wept aloud. Old Three held her ice-cold hands and called “Mother,” over and over.

Over his mother’s shoulder he saw his eldest Sister-in-law, “I’ve come back.”

Yun Mei did not turn her head to look at her brother-in-law but threw herself on Niu Niu’s body and began to weep aloud.

“What’s happened? What’s happened?” Old Three was impatient with the weeping of his mother and his sister-in-law. Holding his mother’s hand he went into the room where Yun Mei was. With one glance he saw the little bed.

When Rey Shuan heard his mother and his wife weeping he felt more at ease. He knew that weeping was the best means for getting rid of sorrow. He decided to tell his grandfather the news of Old Three’s return.

“Grandfather, Grandfather,” Rey Shuan called in a hushed voice.

The old man seemed to be asleep and grunted without opening his eyes.

“Grandfather, Old Three has come back.”

“What?” The old man’s eyes were still shut.

“Old Three has returned.”

The old man opened his eyes. “Little Three, my Little Three, where is he?” The old man sat up. “Where is he?” the old man asked impatiently. Without waiting for Rey Shuan to answer he shouted, “Little Three, Little Three, come here. I want to see you.” Then leaning on Rey Shuan he started out of the room. “To come back and not come first to see your grandfather! What a child!”

When Old Three saw his grandfather he suddenly stood still. His grandfather was no longer the strong and healthy grandfather of his memory. He had changed to a thin, weak, bent, old man. Not only his hair and his beard were white but even his eyebrows were all white.

The old man put his dried, withered hand on his grandson’s shoulder, and said, “Good, good, Little Three, you are even taller and stronger. Ah — you have been away for eight years but your grandfather waited for you. Good, now I am easy and even if I die I will be at peace, my Little Three has come back.”

Mrs.Tien Yiu, still weeping, came out into the courtyard. She walked toward her son.

The old man looked at his daughter-in-law and sighed and then very gently said, “Don’t weep any more, Little Three has come back — is that not happiness?”

Mrs.Tien Yiu nodded and wiped the tears with the corner of her coat.

The old man saw Kaodee and rubbed his old eyes, and asked, “Are you not the elder daughter of the Kuan family?”

Kaodee nodded.

“Did you come with Little Three?” The old man had no use for any of the Kuans even though he knew that Kaodee was better behaved than Big Red Pepper and Meydee.

“That’s right,” Kaodee said and went over and took Mrs.Tien Yiu’s hand.

“Ah — ” The old man did not want to make Kaodee unhappy so did not continue to question her.

After a few moments the old man called Old Three into his own room. “Little Three, what is this about the daughter of the Kuan family?”

Old Three without any hesitation answered directly, “She has no place to go. She wants to stay here for a few days.”

“Oh — ” The old man slowly lay down. “Are you — ”

Old Three guessed what his grandfather meant. “Maybe — ”

The old man did not say anything for a long time — he still did not like the Kuan family no matter how good Kaodee herself was.

“Grandfather, don’t you want more people in the family?” Old Three said and smiled.

The old man thought awhile. “What you say is right.”



Chapter Twenty-seven

HAVING NO NEW CLOTHES Little Niu Niu could be dressed only in a suit of short but clean old clothes. She was put into a small wooden box and buried outside the city.

Yun Mei was ill and could not get up. It was fortunate that Old Three and Kaodee were there. Old Three had not planned to stay at home and wanted to get away again to do work as important as resistance to the enemy. He had seen China and knew what China needed, he could not stay at home like an old woman and deal only with oil, salt, soy sauce, and vinegar; but he could not go now. He must first get Uncle Chien out of prison and see that he had some definite place to live before he could feel at ease, and, at this time his grandfather, mother, brother and sister-in-law all greatly needed him. He knew that his loud laughter and talk and his careless ways could break up the deadly silence of the family.

Old Three’s method with his sister-in-law was very simple but effective. He did not try to comfort her but made her ears ring from morning to night with his demands.

“Sister-in-law, haven’t you got up yet? I want some chiaotse. For eight years I have not eaten chiaotse such as you make.” Or, “Sister-in-law, get up, find some old clothes for me. Look at what I am wearing — so tight I cannot breathe.” He knew that his sister-in-law who liked to be kind would certainly be tricked by him into struggling to get up and do something, and that once she got up and began to do things the wound in her heart would begin to heal.

Besides stimulating his sister-in-law with his demands he also told her about the tragic things he had seen with his own eyes — the boys and girls bombed in the air raids, the children thrown by their own parents into the rivers when they were forced to flee. Niu Niu was after all only one of thousands and tens of thousands of little children who had died in the war.

Gradually the sister-in-law was able to get up and begin to work. She was thin, and the thinner she became the larger her eyes seemed. As she worked she would suddenly stand still as if to think of something. That she should not have the opportunity to be silent in this way Old Three told Little Precious to stay more with his mother and chat with her.

With his eldest brother Old Three had many things to talk about.

The two of them moved into one room so that Kaodee could stay with Yun Mei.

After they had talked for three or four nights it seemed that the brothers had exhausted their conversation but were still unwilling to stop talking. They had to talk about family affairs, national affairs, and world affairs as if the prosperity of the nation and the peace of the world depended on the plans they made. When there was really nothing left to say they would talk again about the things they had talked of before.

The whole family liked Kaodee. She was no longer a “young lady” but was a person willing to do anything — she had been trained by the war. She waited on Old Man Chi and Mrs.Tien Yiu and cooked for the whole family. Her cooking was still not very good but she did not let this worry her. Whether she did well or not so well she went ahead with the work, and if this time she did not do so well, would she not do better next time?

This was another reason why Yun Mei felt that she must get up — she could not let the guest do everything for her. Even Old Man Chi was moved and forgot his prejudice against the Kuans. Secretly he said to Old Three, “Don’t let the guest wait on us; what kind of a way to act!”

Old Three smiled but said nothing.

The poet, Mr.Chien, was able to leave prison on the seventh day after the day of victory.

Old Three decided to give Uncle Chien a small welcome party. Peiping had been quiet after the victory. Rey Tang did not like this silence.

He went to talk it over with his grandfather. The grandfather agreed and said urgently, “You must get wine, he likes a drink or two.”

“Surely, I know a place where I can get wine.”

Also he discussed with Yun Mei and Kaodee the kind of food they should have. Yun Mei thought that dried soybean curd and peanuts would go well with the wine and would be enough. To cook a meal for the whole party she could not manage; she had not that much money and she had not that much energy.

“Good, that will do, Eldest Sister-in-law, and make us some tea.”

He went to his mother, “Mother, Uncle Chien is coming; you must get up and greet him.”

Mr.Tien Yiu nodded.

Rey Tang told his eldest brother that they must go together to get Mr.Chien. Rey Shuan of course wanted to go but he also thought of Mr.Goodrich. He spent a whole day trying to find his old friend and learned that Mr.Goodrich had been taken a few months before to the concentration camp in Weihsien, in Shantung province.

Old Three went to notify Wang the Third, to invite him and young Mrs.Chien both to come to the Chi home. Then he also invited Fourth Mistress Li, Cheng Chang Shun, and all the neighbors in the Little Sheep Fold. The neighbors were as pleased as when they had heard the news of victory.

Rey Shuan and Rey Tang went and brought back Mr.Chien.

Mr.Chien, except for the clothes on his back, possessed nothing.

Leaning with one hand on Old Three’s arm he held the hand of his grandson with the other and limped out of the prison gate. Rey Shuan followed behind.

Mr.Chien had not been tortured this time when he had been questioned in prison. The Japanese wanted him to surrender and when he refused their “kindness” they stole his grandson and brought him to the prison. Once every day they allowed the grandfather and grandson to see each other. Mr.Chien knew they were using the child to bring pressure on him: if he would bend his head and surrender, the child would live; if he refused, they would torture the child in his presence.

But Mr.Chien had not been worried. He would not lose his temper and so stir them up to make the child suffer at once nor would he say the words of surrender to make the child safe. In his gentle smiling way he accepted things as they came. If the time should come when he really could not protect the child there would be nothing he could do. He would not surrender. What did it matter if one more died in the war even if that one were his grandson?

When the child had first come into the prison he had cried and made a continuous disturbance. He was crying the first time they brought him to Mr.Chien and the tears were all over his face. He had struck his grandfather on the legs and shouted, “I want my mother, I want my mother.”

Mr.Chien had patted the child’s head gently and said many times, “Be quiet, be a good boy and don’t cry.” After he had stopped crying and struggling the child asked, “Why have they shut us up here? Why won’t they let us go home?”

“No reason.”
“Why is there no reason?”
“Just no reason.”

After a few days the child had seemed to adapt to the situation and no longer wept and struggled. When he was brought to his grandfather he seemed to be especially glad. He asked his grandfather many questions — what was war, what was prison, where did the Japanese come from, why did the Japanese come to Peiping? His grandfather would explain gently to the child each question as it came.

The grandson asked the grandfather to give him a name. He remembered that his mother had often said that his name would be given him by his Grandfather Chien.

Before the child was born, the grandfather had prepared a name for him, Chien Cho — Revenge Chien. But now that the child stood beside his knee he felt that he should not make the child carry such a bitter name through life. The old man asked the child, “What do you think of the word ‘revenge’?”

The grandson had blinked his little eyes and pretended to think. He could think how a cat, or a dog, or a cow looked, but revenge — what was revenge? He could not imagine, so it must be bad. He said, “I don’t want it.”

The grandfather apologized. “Good, wait and I will think — I will think of a good name for you.”

And then one day he had said, “How would you like the name Chien Shan — Chien the Righteous or Good — from the first line of the Three-word Classic I have been teaching you, ‘When man was created his nature was good’?” And the child had agreed.

The Japanese had at first let the child stay with his grandfather a few minutes only each time but gradually as the grandfather and the grandchild got on better with each other they had lengthened the time for them to chat, hoping the child would soften Mr.Chien for them. Then sometimes they would take the child suddenly away and he would struggle and weep.

Young Mrs.Chien and Little Precious stood at the entrance to the Little Sheep Fold and waited for her father-in-law and her son. One could hardly recognize her; she was so thin but her eyes were still very bright and active as if she had put her whole life force into them to find her son. Now that she knew he was coming to her again her eyes seemed to flash fire.

Young Mrs.Chien ran forward as soon as she saw the grandfather and grandson. She swept Little Shan into her arms and held him tightly. She crouched on the ground and pressed her face to her son’s face.

When they reached house Number One young Mrs.Chien stopped from habit, but Mr.Chien did not even look at the gate and walked slowly past.

There was a crowd outside the Chi family gate. They all wanted to run forward when they saw Mr.Chien but no one moved, Mr.Chien, their good neighbor, their old friend and hero, wore an old blue, cotton-cloth monk’s robe which reached only to his knees. His hair was entirely white and unkempt. His cheeks were deeply sunk and appeared dry and pale. He did not look like their hero but like something covered with the wounds of war. They could not help looking at each other—their own clothes were also shabby, and their own faces were also pale and thin. Then they looked around the Little Sheep Fold and saw that the gates were not painted, the walls were peeling, and everything was sad and unpleasant to look at.

The comedian, Fang the Sixth, lit a small string of tiny firecrackers to welcome the hero in the traditional way.

Each wanted to be the first to take Mr.Chien’s hand but all — without consultation and as one — gave the priority to Old Man Chi. Old Man Chi took Mr.Chien’s hand in both of his and said only, “You have come back,” and had no more to say. He thought of Tien Yiu. Of all in the Little Sheep Fold the one who most resembled Tien Yiu — in age, in height, and in his quality — was Mr.Chien.

Mr.Chien held the old man’s hand warmly but could say nothing.

Old Three, who wanted to make this welcome party as lively as possible, said, “Come, come and have a drink inside the courtyard.”

Old Man Chi turned and stood beside the gate to let Mr.Chien go in first and urged him, “Please, please.”

Mr.Chien indeed wanted a drink. He had made a vow that he would not touch any spirits until the day of victory, and today he must drink some wine.

He walked into the gate and as he walked he greeted Kaodee, Mrs.Tien Yiu, Mrs.Liu, and the others.

Old Man Chi waited until all had entered the courtyard and then slowly went in himself. Rey Tang had long ago joined the others but Rey Shuan waited to support his grandfather. After walking a few steps the old man nodded and said, “Rey Shuan, have all the neighbors come? It’s a real celebration.” There was a smile on the old man’s face.

“When we celebrate your ninetieth birthday it will be more lively than this,” Rey Shuan said.

In the Little Sheep Fold the leaves of the locust trees stirred. A fresh wind was rising.
