The Drum Singers
鼓书艺人（英文版）


It was the summer of 1938. The military situation in Hankow was critical.

The muddy brown water of the Yangtze River flowed swiftly east, but the refugees were fighting their way in the opposite direction, a motley exodus of human misery. Planes with red suns marked on the underside of their wings dropped bombs incessantly. The bombs fell with a sickly swish. As they hit the surface of the river, they threw up splashes sky-high tinged with human blood.

The uPeople*s Peace, M a small white river steamer, was sailing up the river. She was loaded to capacity with refugees. With rapid puffs of black smoke from her funnels, she edged into the Hrst of the “seventy-two gorges” that lay imprisoned by the high steep cliffs. The ^People*s Peace'* was going to Chungking.

The cabins and the holds were crowded with people. There was not an inch of space left on deck. Under the smoke-belching funnels crowded fifty or sixty tiny bewildered children who had lost their homes and parents. They were all smothered with soot and dust, and looked as though they had just come out of a coal mine.

The broad sweep of the Yangtze behaved like an angry dragon which crashed against the rock-studded banks on the left, then swung sharply over to the right, turning and twisting furiously in the midst of the mountains. After one perilous gorge was passed, there was always another. Then the river would shoot abruptly downwards and the ships turned and twisted like a wriggling worm in a life-and-death struggle. Each time the ship’s whistle blew^ everyone on board held his breath expecting the worst.

Once a menacing gorge was passed the people on the ship relaxed. It was like a breathing spell in a strenuous wrestling match. Some of them turned around and watched the patterns of waves and currents near the banks. They saw the bodies of people and buffaloes whirling around in the water, showing just the top of their black hair, or two long rapidly twisting horns.

Sometimes the crowded vessel slipped into a violent roll as it pitched along against the current. Then the water came over the sides to swamp everyone on deck.

When the steep sharp-edged cliffs lining the riverbanks shut off the sunlight, the cold chill of the wind made the passengers shiver. Once or twice, a streak of sunlight appeared through a gap between the rocks and conjured up a strangely beautiful rainbow on the turgid surface of the river.

Every green hill, every rising slope on either shore of the mighty river had a different name. And each was a different shape but all a part of the vast panorama of shifting patterns. Every song of the river’s treacherous beauty had been set in music, and each one of its incredible legends told in poetry. These voyagers from war cared little for that, though they moved through the ageless beauty of ChinaJs history between the summits of the great mountains where the ancient emperors were said to have made love to the angels and thus created their divine inheritance.

But the refugees had neither the leisure nor the space to stand by the railings to appreciate the beauties of the landscape. All the passengers, rich and poor, old and young, were overawed by the threat of danger and the uncertainty of the future. In particular, they were aware of the acute discomfort. Those in the cabins could not get out because the decks were iammed with people and mountainous piles of luggage. The people on deck could not move either because there was no room, not even to breathe or to stand on one leg and then on the other. Everyone was wedged tightly in a solid mass all day, but the tired waiters somehow kept passing food and rice to the passengers. They walked barefoot, their muddy sooty feet soiling everything they touched and making little mud pies on the bedding and bundles. They could not walk on the deck, so they stepped where they could — on the faces and bodies of the passengers. Anyone who got stepped on squealed and cursed, adding to the confusion and misery.

Few people were at peace on board the “People’s Peace.” They were either annoyed, angry, or sad. Not even the occasionally beautiful vista of the green mountains that came into sight exalted them. Life was too grim and too overladen with inconveniences and sorrows.

Only one person among the passengers seemed to be neither sad nor worried, although he, like all the others, was enduring the same misfortunes of war, the difficulties and uncertainties of the journey.

Fang Pao Ching was in his forties. He earned his rice by singing folk songs and telling tales in tea houses accompanied by a drum the size of a tea tray, a pair of castanets, and a threestringed instrument called san-hsien. He was a troubadour, always on his way to somewhere. He took his whole family with him. They were with him now. The one who lay on the sooty deck groaning “Ai-ya” each time the boat tossed was his elder brother. He was known as “Useless Fang.” And useless he was indeed, for he did nothing but groan all day.

The middle-aged woman who huddled next to Useless Fang with her plump back against the cabin wall, a bottle of liquor in her hand, was Fang Pao Ching’s wife. Her eyes were watering and her voice raised in a curse at someone nearby.

Not far from Mrs. Fang, propped up in a half-lying half-sit-ting position and looking utterly miserable and untidy, was the Fangs* own daughter, Phoenix Girl.

On deck near the rail sat a young girl of fourteen. She was the Fangs' adopted daughter, Lotus Charm. Lotus Charm, like her father, sang in tea houses for a living. Now, with a serene patient expression on her delicate face, she was playing domino solitaire. Every time the boat tossed, Useless Fang groaned and Lotus Charm cursed because the movement of the ship had upset her dominoes. But her words, spoken in a low voice, were not rude or vulgar.

Fang Pao Ching did not want to sit with his family, for he liked to move around and could not bear listening to his brother’s groaning or his wife’s constant complaining.

Although he was already in his forties and had experienced many things in his troubadour^ life, Fang Pao Ching was still innocent of face and manner — even his way of talking and his gestures were always kindly. He was not a stupid person, otherwise he could not have made such a comfortable living all these years. But he could be as innocent, naive, and troublesome as a ten-year-old child and be genuine about it. It was no act or pretension when he stuck out his tongue, lifted his shoulder on one side, made a face or laughed out loud like an idiot. It was all very convincing. He did it for his own amusement. His artfulness and his innocence mixed as unobtrusively as a beaten egg, where neither the yolk nor the white can be distinguished one from the other.

When the Japanese entered Peiping, Pao Ching took his family to Shanghai. Then when Shanghai fell, they went to Hankow. And now, as the enemy was pressing in on the outskirts of Hankow, he and his family were among the mass exodus to Chungking. Peiping was Pao Ching s home. The songs he sang were full of Peiping color. He could very easily have stayed in Peiping instead of going through the tortures and uncertainties of being one of millions of refugees. Innocent-faced Pao Ching was practically illiterate, but he was one of the comparatively few singers in Peiping who could read a few words, though not many. The enemy would never dream of killing him. But he preferred to part with his sumptuous home and precious possessions rather than to make a living in cities where the J apanese flag flew. He was full of naive innocence. He did not know whether he was patriotic or not. He just knew that whenever he saw by chance the flag of his own country, his throat became dry and lumpy, as if something were turning inside him.

The one person in the group most opposed to the idea of leaving Peiping was Useless Fang. He was only five years older than his brother, but he felt he was the elder and as such he should be respected. Above all, he demanded that his peace at home should not be disturbed. He was afraid that he might die away from home. His continual groaning uttered in the most dreary fashion did not mean he was suffering from any physical pain — it was just his way of letting Pao Ching know that he had not changed his mind.

Mrs. Fang did not mind leaving Peiping, Shanghai, or Hankow. Her only objection was that her husband decided to leave each city at the last moment, which never gave her a chance to pack all the belongings she wished to keep. She had never given a thought to the difficulties or inconveniences of wartime transportation. Now, between sips at her bottle, she was thinking of an old pair of comfortable shoes and worn stockings whick she wished she had brought with her. But she had left when the others did, though she felt sad when she had to leave her belongings behind. She liked to drink, but when she did, she felt even sadder and often allowed her tongue to run away with her.

Pao Ching did not want to hear his brother's groaning nor his wife's nagging. All day long, he would push and stagger his way around the deck swaying this way and that way with each movement of the ship. This was a most uncomfortable form of exercise; besides he was always in danger of losing a big toe, should one of the sleepers over whom he walked suddenly decide to close his mouth.

He did not took a bit like a showman. He was neither extremely handsome nor repulsively ugly. He was just as ordinary as a clerk in a pawnshop or a department store. There was nothing in his manner eccentric enough to make him appear to be a showman .Nor was he like certain fine artists who need no eccentricity to prove their genius or integrity. The fragment of showmanship which he sometimes revealed only served to puzzle the people who tried to guess his profession.

He was not a tall man, but his body was well-covered with flesh and muscle. His stockiness made him appear sometimes slow and heavy. But when he wanted to, he could be as nimble and active as a monkey- With him, you could never guess whether he would jump over a puddle, or walk right into it letting his shoes soak in the water.

His head was round, and usually shaven and shiny. His eyes, ears, and mouth were all large, so large that they appeared to be hanging loosely on his head. Fortunately, his eyebrows were dark and heavy as though put there to maintain his dignity and to protect the loose flesh on his face from ridicule. They were like two streaks of dark cloud in the sky, and he had a way of moving them to make people think they might strike like lightning.

He had a fine set of teeth which showed all the time, because he liked to smile. His nose was ordinary, but his lips were always smooth and red and bright. Those red lips made him look young in spite of the telltale middle-aged wrinkles under his eyes.

Now, like the waiters, he was stepping round the crowded deck in his bare feet. The boat was unsteady. He did his best to avoid stepping on people. That was why he was barefoot. People excused you more readily if they were trodden on by a pair of bare feet than by a pair of feet in heavy shoes.

He rolled up his pants, revealing his thick white calves. He was wearing an old blue silk long gown, the comers of which he held up so they would not brush the faces of the people lying on deck and also allow him to move more freely.

He held the hems of his gown with one hand, and used the other to hail his friends. He was so used to performing that he automatically thought everybody round him was an audience, to which he should smile or make friendly gestures. And so he moved around the boat, one hand holding his gown, the other waving to the passengers, and his feet moving in the same fashion as if he were crossing a brook or dancing a gavotte.

He was used to having his head shaved every two or three days to keep it absolutely shiny and bald. His bald head was his trademark. Anyone who had heard him sing remembered that. His face had never been the center of attraction as had his head, which had brought him many encores. Now that he had not shaved it for over a week, he scratched the annoying short stubble as he made his way across the decks.

He had made the acquaintance of almost all his fellow passengers within a few hours after boarding the ^People's Peace. M Soon he was behaving as though he were the man who had supervised the building of the ship. He knew every comer of it, and exactly where everything was. He knew where to get liquor for his wife so she would go to sleep instead of pointing her finger at him, and where to get a bowl of noodle soup for his brother Useless Fang to stop him from groaning. Like the magicians who could produce rabbits and birds from thin air, Pao Ching could produce aspirin tablets for those passengers who suffered from headache or seasickness and special medicines for those suffering from malaria.

It did not require much effort for him to find out about the people on board ship. He seemed to know more about them than the captain himself. And the captain by now was an old friend of his — this came about because of Pao Ching's most precious possessions： a fifty-year-old handmade three-stringed fiddle and a round flat drum the size of a tea tray. These instruments, with which he and Lotus Charm made a living to support themselves and the entire family, could only be bought in Peiping. If he had broken them now, he could never hope to replace them. That was why the minute he arrived on the boat, he left the instruments with the captain for safekeeping. The captain had never met him before, and was under no obligation to look after a fiddle and a drum for a tea house singer when he was already so occupied with his own duties. But Pao Ching seemed to have a magic influence. He made his way into the captain's cabin like a sneaky warm spring breeze, and made the captain feel it an honor to be given the custody of his fiddle and drum.

Pao Ching did not get very far in dancing his gavotte. He halted every few steps he took, sometimes by his own will but mostly because he was called by a fellow passenger. One person asked him for a few aspirin tablets. Another wanted a headache powder. Others grabbed hold of his sleeves and asked him to tell them a joke. He paused whenever he felt like it, which was usually when he wanted to borrow a deck of cards or to know the time. When at last he found he had nothing else to do, he climbed the narrow iron stairs to the top deck to look at the smoke-covered children under the funnels which nobody seemed to care about.

Pao Ching had no sons of his own. He liked boys more than he did girls, and it pleased him to notice that most of these sooty miserable children were boys. His big round eyes moistened at the sight of them. Thinking of the many sad songs and stories he had sung and told during his performances, he could well imagine what heartbreaking experiences these poor creatures had gone through when they lost their parents in the great turmoil and how they starved and shivered without food and clothing, all the way from Shanghai or Nanking, then now to Szechwan.

He wished he could produce three or four hundred steaming-

hot meat dumplings to give to these sickly black little angels. But, alas, he had nothing to give. The only valuable possessions he had were the fiddle and the drum and they were in the safekeeping of the ship's captain.

He had intended to sing a song or to tell a few stories to the children. But he could not open his mouth because he was so choked with emotion. The ready smile and easy friendliness which he had acquired in his years as a traveling troubadour were useless before these suffering children. No, he could not give them his stage smile. He just stood there quietly, looking foolish as his bare bald head was slowly being given a coat of the thick black soot from the belching funnels.

The sight of these children made him think of his adopted daughter Lotus Charm. He had bought her when she was seven from a very thin man who called himself her uncle and who accepted twenty dollars in payment. She had looked just like these children-so sick, so dirty, and so thin that he wondered how much longer she could live.

It seemed like yesterday. But she was now fourteen years old. He wondered if she still remembered her real father and mother. Would she think of him as her real father? Would she go off with a rich man as his concubine? Or would she run away to marry a young man of her own choice? Such matters, he often pondered in his heart.                                  、
His business as well as his reputation and the well-being of his family were closely related to Lotus Charm. True that she was only fourteen and still quite innocent. But she could not remain fourteen forever, and if something should happen to her, his entire family would be faced with disaster.

His entire family? His face twisted in bitterness as he thought of them. That useless brother of his, and his drunken wife and stupid daughter Phoenix Girl! How could he keep Lotus Charm from running away from such a family?

He heard people cheer on the deck below. He came back from his dreams. He looked down. The passengers were cheering because the ship had sailed out of the last treacherous gorge. The banks became only gentle hills now. The river was once again wide and calm. The little white steamer was looking for a place to rest. She felt like a tired exhausted woman. Slowly and wearily, she headed for a sand bank to take her much-needed rest. The vessel lowered her anchor. On the beach were a few reed and bamboo booths already set up.

The sun was golden red in the western sky as the ship was made fast. No one moved for a moment. The captain and the river pilots who had brought the ship to safely through the gorges, and the waiters and passengers who had been watching them, were too tired to move. Even the little white vessel itself seemed numbed with fatigue.

Pao Ching brushed away the sooty specks from his bald head. He opened his mouth wide and shouted to the children, “Come，come quick, all of you. Let’s have a swim.”
Pushing through the crowd, he led the children down the gangplank like a string of ducks. They jumped into the water with a noisy splash.


^ he city of Chungking in Szechwan Province is built on a hill, at the foot of which meet the two mighty rivers Kialing and Yangtze. Their junction resembles a miniature sea. In the center where the river currents collide, there is a ridge of water which shines radiantly in the sun, marking the boundaries of the two rivers and warning the passing ships of danger.

Along the lines of the riverbank, big grayish-black wooden boats wallowed at anchor. Little red flags fluttered from their tall masts. Men with bare backs and bare feet and white cloths wrapped round their foreheads were carrying cargoes of all sizes and descriptions up and down the gangplanks.

Ships, boats, ferries, and pitifully small wooden canoes were moving on the river. The large steamers kept sounding their whistles. The small wooden boats rolled up and down in the waves like little black leaves. Boats were everywhere. Some were moving, some not, some long, some short, some old-fashioned and some modern, some cruising straight ahead and some veering this way and that. They made the miniature sea where the two rivers merged look narrow, overcrowded, noisy, and confused.

The bank was lined with reed and bamboo tents where the refugees hurried to buy food. There were huge pots of steaming rice and chunks of bright red meat, rolls of thick sausages and piles of green tangerines. The booths were surrounded by the crowds who shopped and gossiped, and admired the big fat white 248 pigs and the little maroon-colored Szechwan ponies no larger than donkeys.

The weather was unbearably hot, without the slightest breeze. This miniature sea was like a steaming oven — so hot that everyone perspired and gasped for breath, and was short of temper. Sailors and passengers, porters and travelers, buyers and sellers alike, were quarrelsome.

The blazing sunlight, reflected in the water, blinded the eyes. The yellow sand and the huge bare rocks shimmered in the light. The view made one feel parched. The city, many feet above the river, was also sweltering under a cloud of grayish-white mist. It was all water down below and all rocks high above. Between the water and the hill were hundreds of steps — blinding streaks of reflected light. The sea was a steaming oven, the city on the hill a vast kiln.

Pao Ching was clasping his precious three-stringed instrument in his arms as though he were holding a baby. Phoenix Girl had the drum in her hands. She held it as carefully and respectfully as though she were holding the image of Buddha. Pao Ching was in no hurry to leave the boat. He did not try to fight his way through the crowd. Years of traveling had made him used to this kind of thing. He found himself an out-of-the-way place where he with his three-stringed instrument could wait at leisure for the others to go first. As to his fellow passengers, including the refugee children, he had already said polite goodbyes hours ago.

From the look of the panicky passengers, one would think the boat had caught fire instead of having anchored. Every passenger was trying to be the first to go down the gangplank. They were losing their tempers, shouting and cursing. As they fought,

some women lost their babies in the river, others their high-heeled shoes; and they all wobbled as if they were. dancing the hopscotch. Those who had forgotten to lock their suitcases arrived on the bank to find only an empty case, the contents all down the river. The pickpockets were busy, too, and petty thieves made off with umbrellas; nasty-minded men ran lustful fingers over the soft places on women's bodies.

Pao Ching was afraid that Lotus Charm might get hurt in the crowd. He kept warning her, ** My little Lotus Charm, don't hurry. Don’t hurry.”
Though Lotus Charm was not yet mature, she attracted attention everywhere. Perhaps it was because she belonged to the lowly drum-singing profession, which meant that most people felt they could take advantage of her. Or perhaps her face had the quality of virgin radiance, which fitted the artless but attractive manner of her conversation and her behavior.

She had a small round face, delicately and pleasantly full. Whether she wore make-up or not, her face always had a quality of innocent radiance. Her eyes were very black and wondrously lustrous. She was not exactly pretty, but she had an underscri-bable allure of innocence which caught the attention of all who saw her. Her nose was small and tiptilted. Her nostrils turned slightly upward, which robbed the lower part of her face of some of its charm and made her look like a mischievous little child. When she tilted her small chin and nose upward, she looked as if there was nothing in the world which mattered. Her lips were exceptionally thin. Only when she put on lipstick did they stand out. Her teeth were very white but not even. That, somehow, added something to her personality.

Her black glossy hair was plentiful. She usually wore it braided in two little pigtails. Sometimes the pigtails hung in front of her shoulders, sometimes at the back, and almost always she tied them with bright-colored ribbons.

Her body was not yet fully developed. She wore black-and-white embroidered satin slippers which made her look shorter and tinier still. Her step was light. If she looked a little reckless, it might be because of her light-stepping feet. Her face, her two little pigtails, and her figure gave her the appearance of a normal fourteen-year-old girl. Only when she walked with those light dancing steps would one know she was a public entertainer. Now, although she was wearing elaborate embroidered satin slippers， over her lithe young body she had only a navy blue cotton gown.

Because of the intense heat, she had her braids hanging over her shoulders and they were without ribbons. Her make-up was already washed away by perspiration, revealing her vivid ivory skin. Her cheeks were flushed with the heat. This made her look prettier than with her make-up on.

Her eager black eyes had taken in everything along the bank —the green tangerines, the white rice* the little maroon ponies, and the reed and bamboo booths. To her, they were all new and interesting and exciting. She wanted to jump down to the river-bank right away, to buy some of the green tangerines and ride on the odd-colored ponies. Chungking was wonderful, she thought. Who would have guessed that horses here could be smaller than donkeys and that tangerines were sold green before they were ripe. And already families were settling into the booths. A plump naked little baby caught her eye. She forgot the heat, forgot her little grievances. How she wished she were ashore instead of being still on the boat.

But she knew her father was watching her. However impatient she was, she dared not go down alone. She was just a little girl and, in addition, only a drum singer. She needed her father to protect her. So she stood still, looking out across the riverbank at the green tangerines and the fat white pigs.

Useless Fang was sitting up — not that he wanted to, but if he did not, he would risk having his face ficampled by passengers as they fought their way through. He had not stopped groaning. The confusion of the people noshing by made him dizzy, he said.

In appearance, he looked very much like his brother, except he was taller and thinner. But because he was thin, his eyes and nose appeared larger than they actually were. He wore his long hair combed back, smooth and long like an artist just returned from Paris.

He too could sing folk songs to the accompaniment of the drum and fiddle, and could do it even better than his brother. But he scorned the drum-singing profession because it was lowly. He could play the three-stringed instrument too. But he woxrid not accompany his brother and niece, because being an accompanist would be lowlier still. So he did nothing and lived on his brother, because, according to his own reasoning, doing that did not make him a lowly person. He was an intelligent man. H he had liked, he codid have become a distinguished singer. But he did not want to make the effort. He always scorned money. To trade song and music for money! How degrading!
Ethically speaking, Pao Ching could not escape supporting Useless Fang. They were born of the same parents, so he had to accept the responsibility. But Useless Fang did serve some pur-
pose in the family； he was the only one who could manage Pao Ching's wife. Her temper came and went like a summer storm. When Pao Ching found it difficult to cope with her, only his brother could manage. Whenever she lost her temper, Useless Fang would lose his too. If two people lose their tempers at the same time, one of them has to be the first to give in. If she began to smile, Useless Fang would smile also. When both of them were smiling, there was peace in the family. Useless Fang always kept his sister-in-law company, playing cards and drinking with her.

Pao Ching had his own reasons to feel protective toward Lotus Charm. She was his main source of income, and, in all conscience, he could not but feel grateful to her. She had been earning money for him since she was eleven years old, when she stepped on the stage to give her first performance. But he was always afraid that she might learn evil ways from her fellow girl singers. The older she grew, the greater the danger became, he felt, and the more anxious he was of her. When she sang in the amusement centers, she came into contact with girl singers who sold more than their talents. His duty was to protect and discipline her, but he knew he must not spoil her. Because of this, love and anxiety were constantly at war in his heart; he never knew for sure what he should do for the best.

Useless Fang’s attitude towards Lotus Charm was very different .He felt no gratitude to her because she earned the money he spent. And he did not worry that she might become a lost woman through her lowly profession. He just loved her as if she were his real niece. He would willingly have fought his brother and sister-in-law if they did not give Lotus Charm everything she wanted. But he had many timevS angered Lotus Charm himself.

Often when he was out of money, he would osteal one of her rings or a pair of expensive high-heeled shoes to sell. If Lotus Charm did not get angry, he became an even closer and more loyal friend. If she lost her temper, he would get red in the face, and upbraid her. And after that, he would not speak to her till she apologized.

Shortly before they docked, Mrs. Fang had fallen asleep. She was always like that. Before anything happened, she would be full of ideas and opinions. But when the time came, she had usually drunk so much that she was in deep sleep. When she woke up, she would always be quiet and peaceful if matters had been satisfactorily arranged. If not, she would shout and claim furiously that her way was right.

Mrs. Fang's father had also been a professional drum singer. According to the custom of the drum-singing people, however, parents never would let their own daughters learn the trade, preferring to raise them as respectable girls so they could marry re-spectable husbands. But they would buy a little girl not their own flesh-and-blood, teach her to sing, and let her make money for them.

Even so, Mrs. Fang herself had not been raised respectably. Before she was married, she had followed the profession that supported many of the drum-singing girls.

When she was young, she had been passably good-looking. And now at middle age, when she was not drunk, she was still attractive. The skin on her long oval face was soft and fair. But when she was drunk, her face was covered with little red spots that made her look dissolute. He eyes were attractive, and she always combed her hair very casually into a bun at the back of her neck. The bun made her look coquettish sometimes and elegant at others. She was not tall, and recently she had begun to stcx»p. At times she was dressed carefully, and her face made up, but often she was unkempt. Everything about her was like her temper, unpredictable and changeable.

Pao Ching had not started life as a drum singer. He had learned a trade, but he loved to sing so he decided to become a professional. That was how he met his wife. He wanted to learn all he could from her singing father, and at the same time, was very much in love with her beauty and romantic manner. When he married her, he finally became a professional singer.

Mrs. Fang felt that because Lotus Charm was a drum singer, she could never become a good woman. This, Mrs. Fang believed, because of her own early association with the girl singers. As Lotus Charm grew prettier, Mrs. Fang became more and more jealous. Sometimes when she was drunk, she accused her husband of having dishonorable intentions toward the girl. Because she herself came from a drum-singing family, Mrs. Fang thought nothing of buying and selling girls to suit her ends. She had made up her mind to sell Lotus Charm again, this time as a concubine to a rich man, before Lotus Charm got too wise. Mrs. Fang knew that by doing this, she could turn a pretty penny for herself. With part of the money, she would buy another seven or eight-year-old girl, train her to sing, and then sell her when she became of age. It was good business. She was not a heartless person, just practical. In her own day, she had seen so many little girls bought and sold; it seemed the natural thing to do. Besides, if she was bought by a rich man, Lotus Charm herself would always have plenty to eat and drink, and not be lacking in diamonds and jewels. So for Lotus Charm's good too, it might not be at all a bad idea to sell her.

Pao Ching was opposed to his wife's idea. He did not come from a drum-singing family. He could not buy and sell human beings without feeling disgust. It was true he had bought Lotus Charm. But he had done so because he had pity on the poor little girl. He wanted to feed her and bring her up properly. At first, he had no intention of turning her into a professional drum singer. Only because she was so bright, and liked so much to sing, did he teach her a song or two. He felt that even if it was wrong for him to have bought the girl, it would be worse still to sell her. He hoped she would help him several more years and then, when she was old enough, she would marry a man of good standing and settle down. Then, and only then, would he have no weight on his conscience _ He dared not quarrel openly with his wife over the matter. She never discussed Lx>tus Charmfuture with him either. But when she was drunk, she would scream at him, "Go ahead and keep her if you like. You can keep her. Sooner or later，she’ll run away with some no-good man. Then youJIl be happy. M This kind of talk increased Pao Ching’s fear and made him want to protect Lotus Charm all the more. But his wife's tongue got sharper as time went on.

The ship was almost empty. Lotus Charm wanted to go ashore but dared not go alone. She was so restless that she swung her pigtails to the front of her shoulders one minute and to the back another.

Lotus Charm did not dare to wake her mother. Neither did Pao Ching or Phoenix Girl. Only Useless Fang could do that. But he was waiting for someone to ask him, so as to show his importance .
uPlease wake her up, ^ Pao Ching said.

Useless Fang stopped groaning. He rolled up his sleeves pompously and woke her.

Mrs. Fang opened her eyes. She hiccuped twice. Then, seeing the city on the hill, she asked, “Where are we?”
^Chungking, ^ said Useless Fang, airing his importance.

4<Is that it?M Mrs. Fang pointed an unsteady finger at the hill. I won't go there! I want to go home.She grabbed her little parcel, looking as if she could get home in one hop.

They knew that if they argued with her, she would jump into the water and make such a fuss that it might be hours before they could get ashore.

Pao Ching rolled his eyeballs. He never admitted he was afraid of his wife. He remembered the time when he was courting her and the first two years after they were married. He remembered how hard he had tried to please her and how he pampered her to the point of making himself ridiculous. He rolled his eyes as he thought. How could he avoid a direct clash with his wife, and yet persuade her to go ashore. He spoke to Phoenix Girl and to Lotus Charm instead- “Do you two want to waik，or to ride in the litter?”
Lotus Charm answered in her young tender voice, “I want to ride on that maroon pony. It’ll be fun.”
Mrs. Fang immediately forgot the parcel she was planning to take home. She turned to look at Lotas Charm and screamed, “You are not to do any such thing! To ride on that pony! No one is going to ride on that pony! ”

“All right, all right, ” Pao Ching said，leaping at the opportunity. He led the way, with the fiddle still in his arms. “We’ll take the litters. Come now. We'll take the litters,

They all followed him down the gangplank. Mrs. Fang still insisted that she wanted to go home，but she walked behind them. She knew veTy well that if she was left alone, she would never get home by herself. And besides, she knew nothing about the city of Chungking either.

The whole family, carrying the fiddle, the drum，and parcels large and small, climbed into the separate litters. The porters, who took their heavy luggage, walked ahead.

Step by step, slowly and wearily, the coolies carried the litters up the steep incline to the city. Those in the litters sat quietly, lifting their heads or straightening their backs occasionally but otherwise not moving. With the dangerous mountain steps ahead of her, even Mrs.Fang was quiet and still. She was scared she might fall out of her seat if she moved.

Only Lotus Charm was happy. She called out to her sister Phoenix Girl, “Look! This is like going up to Heaven.”
Phoenix Girl seldom spoke. This time she answered, Careful, younger sister. I remember the higher you climb, the harder you fall! ”


he party had reached the top of the hill and gotten out of the litters. Although she had been carried up, Mrs. Fang was certain she could not walk another step. She seemed more exhausted than the coolies who had carried her. She sat on the steps and muttered that she wanted to go back home. This hilly city, she said, scared her to death. How could she go up and down all those steps every time she wanted to go out.

Lotus Charm had been craning her neck at the main street of the city. Her heart was wild with excitement. There were tall buildings, automobiles, and neon lights. Who would have thought that deep in the heart of these mountains, there would be things as modern as in Shanghai and Hankow!
She ran over to her father. “Father, there must be some good hotels here, ” she said. “Let’s find a nice one.”
But Mrs. Fang had made up her mind she would not walk further. There was a hotel close by. That would do* She instructed the porters to carry in their luggage. Lotus Charm pouted, but no one dared to object.

The hotel was small, dark, filthy, and extremely stuffy. The only thing attractive about it was the red paper lantern over the entrance inscribed with a verse：

Run to an inn before it starts getting dark, Take to the road when the cock crows early.

The men occupied one room and the woman another. Both were small upstairs rooms about the size of ship’s cabins. Useless Fang started to groan ^Ai-ya^ again. He said he felt as if he were back on the ship.

The hotels was a typical Szechwan building, with walls of bamboo sticks plastered with mud so thin and crumbling that a man could make a hole with a blow of his fist. The roof was covered with lcx)se tile, and the sky was visible through the gaps between them. The bed was bamboo, and the table and chair were bamboo too. Wherever one sat, leaned, or lay, the bamboo made a squeaking crackling sound.

This building was home to an assortment of rats and mice, large and small. There were mosquitoes and bed bugs, too. The bed bugs did not come out during the day, but the walls were streaked with smears of blood where guests had squashed them at night.

A pensive rat, full eight inches long, began to nibble at Lotus Charm's shoes. Lotus Charm jumped onto the bamboo bed and sat there with her knees up to her chin. Her small round face turned white. She stared at the filthy floor in horror.

Everyone was complaining, except Mrs. Fang. She disliked rats and squeaking bamboo furniture as much as anyone, but it had been her idea to stay in this hotel, and she was determined not to complain. “This little hotel is not bad，” she commented to Phoenix Girl. uAnyway, it’s better than having to sleep on the deck of a ship. M She drew a bottle out of her reed basket and took a large swallow.

The weather was oppressively hot. Through the flimsy rooftop and thin walls, the heat came in ceaselessly. The little room was a frail shell that seemed to hold an invisible ball of fire. The table and chairs were so hot that one could not put a hand on them without discomfort. There was no breeze. People perspired and broke out in prickly heat.

Pao Ching was so warm that even his bald pate had turned red. But he did not like being idle. He opened up his suitcase and took out his best long silk gown, some clean socks, his thick-soled satin slippers, and a folding sandalwood fan. No matter how warm the weather, he had to dress, survey the city, and pay his respects to local celebrities. He had to make contacts and look for a theater. He could not afford to be lazy like his brother, or irresponsible like his wife. He had to find a place immediately where Lotus Charm and he could sing and make some money. Else they would starve.

Useless Fang was concerned when he saw his brother so anxious to get started. “My dear brother, ” he said, “our songs are of the north country. Do you think anyone would appreciate them in these hills?"
Pao Ching laughed. “Don’t worry, elder brother. So long as there is a place to sing, even if it should be in Turkey, I can make my bowl of rice! ^
“Really?” Useless Fang was gloomy. He had taken off his shirt and was rubbing the sweaty grime from his chest. He did not share his brother's optimism, nor did he like this oven of a city in the mountains.
“My dear elder brother,” said Pao Ching, ‘‘please keep watch while I am out. Don’t let Lotus Charm go out alone. Don’t let her mother get drunk and be careless with cigarette butts. These flimsy houses are like match boxes. One cigarette butt in the wrong place, and the whole street goes up in flame. n
“But what*. Useless Fang was about to protest.

Pao Ching guessed what his brother wanted to say, and grinned. “Don’t tell me that story. They are all afraid 〇[ you. You are the only one they listen to. Isn’t that so?”
Useless Fang smiled almost grudgingly.

Pao Ching piled his things together, wrapped them in a large handkerchief, and tucked the bundle under his arm. First to a bath house where he could bathe and shave his head before dressing in his best clothes.

Carrying the parcel, he walked quietly out of the room so his wife would not notice.

But she heard him. “Hie ... You ... Where are you going?

He did not answer. He merely shrugged his shoulders and hurried down the rickety stairs.

Outside, he took a deep breath and set out briskly. He quickly forgot his family troubles as he looked over the city. He liked the broad main street with its concrete buildings and dazzling neon lights. This was excellent. These lights meant business.

He found a bath house, and the moment he was inside he started nodding to everyone, including the attendants, as though they were old friends. He discovered two or three bathers who had been fellow passengers on board ship. He shook their hands cordially. Then he went to the cashier and paid their checks for them without letting them know.

He impressed everyone in the bath house. Soon everybody knew that a very distinguished person was taking a bath among them. Even the lazy Szechwan attendants gave him special attention, running to get hot tea and bringing warm towels.

He had shaved his head and face. Then, naked and relaxed, he leaped into the steaming pool and swam around like a young sea lion. Then he sat on the edge of the pool. There, after slapping his chest with his fists, he began to sing. His voice was not loud, but deep and resonant. He was happy. Hundreds of things were waiting to be done, but he was in no hurry. He had to sing for a while. He enjoyed hearing his own voice, yet he also liked admiration from others.

Later, when he had stopped sweating, he put on his expensive silk gown and satin slippers. He turned in his soiled clothes at the front desk to be laundered, and feeling clean and refreshed, walked out into the street to begin work.

First he must find out what kind of acts the local vaudevilles were showing, and if their business was good. For an hour, he visited tea houses, and found that all along the riverbank, the native artists were singing songs and telling stories in their own style to the accompaniment of music. Judging by Peiping standards, he did not think highly of their native art. His own melodies were much more complicated and refined. But a good artist should be humble and remember there is always something to be learned.

What made him happy was that all the houses were doing good business. If these artists could make money, so could he and Lotus Charm. The natives would not understand all their songs. But a new act was always a box-office attraction, and these Szechwan folk must be curious to see something from far away. Chungking was now the provisional wartime capital, and people were gathered there from all parts of the country. Even if the na-

tives did not come to see his show, the refugees would. Yes, everything looked good.

But he must have a troupe. Lotus Charm and he could not sing in the tea houses or in those booths along the riverbank. Not that, definitely. He was a respectable artist from Peiping. He had sung in such large cities as Shanghai, Nanking, and Hankow. He must have a theater of his own where he could display his silk embroidered with gold, his curtains, table covers and the scrolls and banners which had been given him in appreciation by famous people all over the country. He had to have a good selection of programs too, including folk songs and tales, a couple of fast-talking comedians, some magic, and a good ventriloquist. Anything and everything, with himself as star. If he could not assemble a vaudeville troupe of his own sort right away, he would have to get some local artists to help. But whatever happened, he would give the people of Chungking a chance to see and enjoy something dif^ ferent.

He walked faster and he began to sweat again. But the perspiration was comfortable and cooling. The clamper he became, the better he felt.

Like other large cities, Chungking had scores of tea houses. Pao Ching walked from one to the other. He quickly discovered who were the people in town worth seeing. He knew some of their names even before he arrived in Chungking. But before going out to see them, he preferred to sit around the tea houses to absorb the local atmosphere. You saw everyone here — merchants and gangsters, refined scholars and gamblers. Pao Ching struck up an acquaintance with everyone he saw.

In one tea house, he met an old friend, Fourth Master Tang. Tang’s daughter, Jeweled Lute, was also a drum singer.

Pao Ching had worked in the same touring company with Tang in Tsinan, Shanghai, Chinkiang, and other cities. His daughter Jeweled Lute had a strong voice, but it lacked tone color and rhythm. Pao Ching did not care much for her work nor did he like her personality. He had found that money was more important to her than friendship. Her father Fourth Master Tang was much the same. The Fangs and the Tangs had quarreled hideously before. For a long time, the two families had not been on speaking terms.

But today, as they met, Pao Ching and Fourth Master Tang felt like two dear brothers who had not seen each other for a long time. They shook hands fondly and tightly, and their eyes moistened with sentimental tears. Pao Ching was looking for a singer, so he could organize his troupe; and Fourth Master Tang was desperately anxious to find work for his daughter; otherwise, he indicated morosely, his whole family would be stranded penniless in Chungking. The necessity of the hour made them forget their former differences. Both warmed at meeting under such a circumstance. Deep in his heart Pao Ching knew that if he was going to work with Fourth Master Tang, sooner or later he would get the losing end of the deal. But he could not pass up an opportunity when he needed help so desperately. As for Fourth Master Tang, he felt as if he had a piece of tasty meat in his mouth the moment he saw Pao Ching; he was determined to bite it hard and not let it go. He knew he could take advantage of Pao Ching easily. He would do it now as always. But the tears in his eyes were real as he shook Pao Ching’s hand.
“My dear Fourth Master Tang,” Pao Ching said warmly,

“how come that you are here?”
“My honorable friend Pao Ching ...” Fourth Master Tang’s tears streamed down his cheeks. ^Pao Ching, you must help me.

I am practically lost in these barbarian hills! ^
Fourth Master Tang was a thin short man about fifty years old. Although he was small, his voice was loud. His face was long and thin with a high narrow nose that looked like an old-fashioned straight razor. As he talked, his head kept turning from side to side. His small eyes were deeply set, and only occasionally did he look anyone straight in the face.
“Is your whole family here?” Pao Cliing asked.
“Yes，even Little Liu is with us! ”
“Little Iiu?” Pao Ching was trying to recall. “Is he the one who plays the san~hsien accompaniment for your daughter?^
“Of course.” Fourth Master Tang looked at Pao Ching, noticing how pleased Pao Ching was. He guessed that Pao Ching was badly in need of an accompanist. That brother of his, Useless Fang, could play the instrument beautifully, but he would not. So if Pao Ching could not find an accompanist, he would be in a bad spot indeed. Little Liu was not a good accompanist, but he would do in this remote hilly country.
^Let's go, my dear Fourth Master Tang. Please take me to see your family, ” Pao Ching said，with sudden enthusiasm. He wanted to see Little Liu and Jeweled Lute right away and get them to join his troupe.
“Pao Ching，my dear friend, we've been here almost two weeks and haven't yet been able to find an opening, " lamented Fourth Master Tang. “Do you think you can arrange it?” Fourth Master Tang wished to know what Pao Ching could do for him before letting him see Little Liu and his daughter. Pao Ching's quick enthusiasm had made him dubious.

Pao Ching pointed at his own nose significantly. “My dear Fourth Master Tang, as long as you are willing to help, I will get the business. Just think — with Little Liu and Jeweled Lute and my daughter Lotas Charm and myself, we have three acts. All that remains then is to add a few more — some local talent perhaps —and we can begin to play right away. Let’s go! ”
tlAre you sure?" Fourth Master Tang was not going to let another man's enthusiasm dispel his own doubts.
“My dear Fourth Master Tang，” remarked Pao Ching loftily, ado you think that I, Fang Pao Ching, would tell you lies? When I say I will get the business, I will get the business! ” Fourth Master Tang shook his head, thinking quickly. He had wanted Pao Ching’s help at first. But now，when he saw how eager Pao Ching was to work with him, he felt he must reverse the situation and make Pao Ching beg for his help instead. “Pao Ching,he said, ^1 think Til go home and talk it over with them first,

Pao Ching knew that Fourth Master Tang was cunning. But he noticed he had not yet refused altogether to cooperate. He pretended not to be anxious at all. ^My dear Fourth Master Tang, you can go home if you like. With Jeweled Lute and Little Liu, I could form a troupe. But remember this, I shall still form a troupe even without them. Give them my regards. Goodbye.” He started to walk away.

Fourth Master Tang laughed. “Please don’t go, Pao Ching. Come to talk to them now if you like . ”
The hotel where the Tangs lived was even smaller than that of the Fangs. The smaller the place, the more Mrs. Tang and Jeweled Lute’s “greatness” was evident. Mrs. Tang was three times as wide as Fourth Master Tang, while Jeweled Lute was at least two inches tailer than her father. If the mother was a mountain of flesh, the daughter was a slim pagoda. Both were fanning themselves furiously.

Jeweled Lute was not attractive, except on stage. Then she made her cheeks and lips bright with make-up. Her eyebrows were very wide and black. Her hair was kinky with d permanent wave. Now she had no make-up on, and her face was damp with perspiration. She was almost ugly, Pao Ching thought. Rut she had remarkable eyes. They could fix you with a disconcerting gaze. Her eyes were brownblack, very large and bright, almost glittering. When you first looked at them, they seemed brown. But when she stared into yours, they became darker and darker, until suddenly they turned brown again.

Mrs. Tang^ voice was high-pitched. When she was not talking, she made a snorting noise with her breath.
“Ai-ya，” Mrs. Tang exclaimed. "I was wondering who was coming. So it is Pao Ching.She was sitting in a bamboo chair. The lower half of her body was so tightly enclosed by the chair that she could not get up to greet Pao Ching. She was fanning herself furiously with a palm-leaf fan, and shouting in that shrill high-pitched voice. ^Wonderful, wonderful. I don!t have to worry any more. We shan’t starve to death here. Sit down，sit down, please. Fourth Master, go make some tea. M Pao Ching looked round. He could not find a place to sit. don't want to sit, ^ he said politely. ^And please, my dear Fourth Master Tang, I am not thirsty. And you, Mrs. Tang, I hope you’ve been well?”
Mrs. Tang snapped. ^IVe lost more than ten cat-ties of flesh since we've been in this horrible city!'' She felt her own fat arm and sighed.
“And how are you, Miss jeweled Lute?” Pao Ching smiled, trying to be sociable.

Jeweled Lute smiled for a moment, till she thought of some-thing to say. “Why，Second Uncle Fang，your head is still as bald as ever! ” she teased.

Pao Ching laughed. But he was thinking that from the way Jeweled Lute looked, so carelessly dressed and without make-up, she might not at the moment be having much business on the side. Pao Ching had never liked her and did not want Lotus Charm to associate with her or learn her evi] ways. Jeweled Lute would do anything for money. Pao Ching wondered if now she might not be having an unprofitable affair with Little Liu. He came back from his thoughts and inquired, “Where’s Little Liu?”
Fourth Master Taag called, 44Little Liu, Little Liu. Please come out. Second Master Fang is here! ”
Lazily and dreamily. Little Liu dragged himself into the living room, yawning. He was a thin, fragile man of about thirty-He had fine features, but he was so thin that a slight breeze could blow him away. His face was pale, as if he might be an opium ad-diet. Now, because he had just waked up, there were pink blotches on his face which made him look young and innocent.

He was very pleased to see Pao Ching. He smiled and said softly, *'Hullo, Second Master Fang.When he noticed Pao Ching was still standing，he said, “I’ll go get you a chair.”
^Please don^ stand on ceremonyt ^ Pao Ching said politely.

“How are you, Little Liu?”
Fourth Master Tang quickly interrupted. “Let’s come to the point. Don’t just stand there! ”
^That^ right, Second Master Fang,Mrs. Tang said. ''You have a proposition. So you talk first! " She fanned herself furious-
ly-
Pao Ching said, very earnestly, “Jeweled Lute and Little Liu,【come to ask your help. I want to organize a troupe. ”
“Then what’s there to talk about?” Mrs. Tang laughed. uYou are the one who wants our help. So give us an advance first! ”
Pao Ching gasped, but quickly forced a smile. “My good Mrs. Tang, you ask me for an advance? Aren't we all refugees?"'
Mrs. Tang looked grim. Little Liu had been on the point of saying he was willing to help, but caught himself. He took out a pack of uDouble Swordsf，cigarettes and passed them. Everyone took one except Pao Ching.
“Since there’s no advance, we can't go along,'' Fourth Master Tang said.
^Friendship and trust/1 Pao Ching asserted. “Aren’t they worth more than anything else we can think of?M Pao Ching's tone was both earnest and dramatic.
“But suppose you aren’t able to form a troupe and we’ve found work elsewhere, what then?” Fourth Master Tang asked. He had no faith in either friendship or trust.

ul won't stop you from making a fortune! w Pao Ching too could be sharp when he wanted to.
(<Is that so? Well, we're all fighting empty-handed, ai-ya]ft Mrs. Tang cried despondently. She turned her eyes to the ceiling.
“Honestly,” Pao Ching said emphatically, “If I can form a troupe, I will treat you well. Whatever percentage my daughter Lotus Charm takes, Jeweled Lute will get the same. As to Little Liu, he would get a twenty-eighty share from whomever he plays accompaniment for. That’s the rule. What do you think?”
UI ..., ^ Little Liu lisped. He dared not express his opinion aloud. He nodded to show that he agreed.

Both Fourth Master Tang and his wife decided to say no more. They stared at Pao Ching, hoping to confuse him and make him give them better terms, though they knew the ones he offered were good.

It was Jeweled Lute who finally spoke. “That’s settled, Second Uncle Fang."
Fourth Master Tang and his wife were inwardly relieved.
“That’s settled then. Wait till you hear from me, Pao Ching said, and left.

4 yjj- he company was named uPeace and Fine MusicT，after a variety troupe Pao Ching had seen in Peiping thirty years before. The little theater, located in one of the busiest streets, had a capacity of two hundred people. According to Pao Ching's calculations, if there were a hundred in the audience, he would not be losing money; a hundred and fifty, he would make money; with a full house, he would have a generous profit.

On the day of the opening, Pao Ching could not sleep. When it was barely dawn he got out of bed, found a piece of wrapping paper, and jotted down all the things he had to do during the course of the day. When he had scribbled all over the paper, he folded it, put it in his pocket, and went out.

First he went to look at the display outside the theater that he had arranged the day before. The billboard was edged with electric lights in red, white, and blue. In the light of dawn, they looked faint and weak, but they had a dream-like beauty. Under the billboard in a glassed frame was a list of the names of the artists written in black characters on red. Across the center were three large words in thick black ink: “Fang Pao Ching.” On the sides, in gold characters on red, were the names of Lotus Charm and Jeweled Lute. Underneath were a group of colorful adjectives, copied from motion picture advertisements.

Pao Ching smiled to see his own name. It was like old times. Yes, he should be proud of himself. Before this, he had worked with others and had also organized his own troupe. But he had always been outclassed by others, either in artistry or reputation. Now for the first time, he had top billing, and he could not help feeling proud of himself.

He gazed contentedly at the billboard for a long time, then reluctantly walked away. He went to a small tea house and called for some tea.

After he had had the tea, he went to see Little Liu about his accoompaniment for Lotus Charm. He himself needed no rehearsal, because he was an experienced singer. If Little Liu lost a beat, he could always go on smoothly as if nothing had happened. But Lotus Charm was different. If the accompaniment was off,

she, too, would lose her way. So he had to have Little Liu try out his accompaniment with her, to save them from making mistakes at the first performance.

But he did not have the courage to walk right into the hotel to fetch Little Liu. If any of the Tang family saw him they would give a hundred reasons why Little Liu should not go to try out his accompaniment with Lotus Charm.

He entered the hall of the hotel and bribed the clerk to get Little Liu downstairs to talk privately. When Little Liu came Pao Ching told him： “Please don't bring your instruments. I have one. If my elder brother should hear you play and if he says anything, please don^t mind him. We have to make money.

Little Liu smiled lazily, and promised to come during the afternoon to rehearse with Lotus Charm.

Pao Ching went to have his head and face shaved, although he had been to the barber’s only two days before. After the shave, he took the piece of paper from his pocket and checked off his list. He had to visit all those who had done things for him, especially the local officials and racketeers. He would give them a few free tickets, to be sure of their help and protection.

He also took time out to notify all who were to work in the theater; the men who sold food and drinks, cigarettes and melon seeds, and hot towels; the man at the ticket office; the ushers and bouncers. They were to come at four o'clock that afternoon for the ceremonial offerings to the God of Show Business and God of Wealth, to ensure good luck.

Pao Ching was already a familiar figure about town. Everybody seemed to recognize him wherever he went. The cashiers and waiters of tea houses, liquor stores, and restaurants all knew he had formed his troupe and was having an opening that night. They called him “Big Boss Fang” and congratulated him — hoping to get a free ticket for the opening. But Pao Ching only raised his own hands thanking them, saying neither yes nor no to their hints. When he had left them, he said to himself, uWhen l patronized you, did I get a free ticket or go away without leaving a tip?”
It was two o'clock in the afternoon when he got back to his little hotel. Everything was in order. Little Liu had been over to try the music with 3_x)tus Charm. She was dressed, and was complaining that she had no money to buy a pair of new white shoes.
“Let’s make do for today,” said Pao Ching. “Put on that pair of satin embroidered shoes. As soon as I get some money, I’ll buy you a pair of new white ones.，T She pouted, but she put on her satin shoes.

Mrs. Fang was all dressed up, and remarkably sober. She had remembered the offering ceremony to the Gods was at four and had kept sober so as not to say the wrong things to the Gods, which might mean disaster. As soon as the show was over and there was money in the till* she would have a drink or two to celebrate .
Phoenix Girl looked annoyed. The offering ceremony meant nothing to her, and she was jealous’ seeing her little sister dressed up so beautifully.

Pao Ching sensed her disappointment. w My dear Phoenix Girl, don’t pout like a baby! When I make some money, Til buy you a new pair of shoes as well. Some beautiful onas I saw in the store today.”
Phoenix Girl did not answer.

“My dear elder brother，” Pao Ching said to Useless Fang，“I must revSt awhile. Tonight I have to sing with all I have. Please, my good brother, go to the theater and get things ready for the offering ceremony. You have a better memory than I. Please get things ready for me. Ill treat you to drinks after the show.

Thus, by begging and persuading, he talked Useless Fang into helping him, and then had to listen to Useless Fang's idea of how the theater should be arranged for the ceremony. Fang liked to show he was a man of great knowledge.
“Yes，my good elder brother，” Pao Ching assented, “I agree with you — but please don't talk any more. It's already after two. Please go now.

Soon it was four clock. The ceremony was to be held back-stage. Useless Fang had prepared everything in an orderly manner. He had arranged an altar on which were written the names of King Zhou Zhuang — the very founder of stage performance, in black characters on red paper. In front of the altar was the offering table, on which were set tall red candles, a huge pewter incense burner, and a few dishes of food and fruit, with three cups of white wine. Around the sides of the table hung an embroidered satin cloth of bright red.

There were benches along three of the walls. In the center of the room was a long table, covered with a white tablecloth, on which were a teapot and teacups, cakes and melon seeds, cigarettes, and a vase of freshly cut flowers.

The local variety entertainers who had been engaged for the show came in one after another. They were dressed shabbily, because they had been out of work for a long time. Some of them were smoking long tobacco pipes. Others puffed at cigarettes, as they fanned themselves with palm-leaf fans.

The door opened suddenly. Pao Ching walked in. He did not look at any particular person. He just bowed deeply, his bald head moving in semicircles from left to right, and said repeatedly, “Please be seated, please be seated.He knew there were few of them who did not stand up to receive him. He did not think much of the local entertainers and the local entertainers thought little of people from udown river.But Pao Ching did not wish to make this dislike toward each other mure obvious than necessary.

He straightened himself. Lotus Charm walked slowly in. Smilingly he introduced her to them, “This is my daughter Lotus Charm.”
Lotus Charm smiled mischievously. She bowed slightly, then walked to the table, picked a flower and pinned it on her dress.
“Lotus Charm，、’ Fao Ching called, “serve our guests some melon seeds. ^ Pao Ching was still standing at the door, waiting for his wife.

Lotus Charm picked up the dish of melon seeds. She took one for herself, but put it back as she was about to pop it in her mouth.

uThis is my wife.'' Pao Ching was again introducing.

Mrs. Fang nodded with poise and dignity. She sat with the entertainers. She tried to speak to the local entertainers in their Szechwan dialect, while they tried to speak to her in her Mandarin. Nobody understood anybody, but they all felt they were polite to each other.
“Oh, big brother, ” Pao Ching said, running over to Useless Fang. “Wonderful, wonderful, too wonderful. I couldn’t have done a better job of decorating. ** He looked around as he spoke.

Useless Fang smiled with pleasure when he heard his brother?s unreserved praise. He yawned and stretched to show Pao Ching how tired he was.

The theater staff began to arrive now； the ushers, the man at the ticket office, the stage hands, the musicians. They were not artists，and there was really no need for them to attend the offering ceremony. But Pao Ching had invited them all, because he wanted to show them that show people too had traditions and their own God to govern them; they were not wild unwanted beggars as many people thoutht.

The Tangs arrived last to show their importance. Mrs. Tang led the family procession, jeweled Lute next, then Fourth Master Tang, with Little Liu tailing pitifully like an unwanted orphan.

Mrs. Tang wore a loose shimmering green silk gown that made her look four times as large as Fourth Matster Tang. Her fleshy face was covered with a thick paste of make-up, and her lips were heavily smeared with lipstick. She was weighted down with jewels： a pair of huge earrings, four rings on her fingers, all of them set with fake diamonds that glittered under the lights.

The moment she entered, she waddled directly over to Mrs. Fang and Lotus Charm, and hailed them as if they were her dearest friends. “My good sister，and why — the Little Lotus Girl, so beautiful. w Then she greeted the Fang brothers. The others, she passed by with a stare.

Without consulting Pao Ching, Mrs. Tang ordered her husband to come forward. u Burn the incense for the Gods! v She wanted him to be master of this offering ceremony.

But Pao Ching pulled Fourth Master Tang aside and shook his head. He was the head of the company; he could not let anyone else be master of the ceremony. So he stepped up to the altar and lit the punk sticks. When they were giving out curling wisps of blue smoke he stuck them in the incense burner. Then he lit the candles. The sudden brightness on the altar, the glow of color, and the perfume of the incense made everybody silent and solemn of face. Reverently Pao Ching kowtowed to the Gods of Show People. On them his living depended; they brought customers to the theater and gave him the gift of song. He knelt then, and prayed to the Gods to help him succeed, to bless Lotus Charni, and to keep Mrs. Tang and her husband from causing trouble.

Outside the theater thunderous firecrackers were set off.

t seven-thirty the house was almost full. Seeing the crowded benches made Pao Ching happy, but he was worried as well. Something might go wrong in front. He had hired two local bouncers to guard the doors. They were experienced and knew the bad elements in town at sight. But Pao Ching did not want them to assault anyone. That would be unlucky on an opening night. Nor did he want to take charge of the front of the house himself. To get involved in an argument would be even worse. He had to be everywhere，see everything and not be seen. Yet he wanted to be on hand to settle any dispute that might crop up. He stood backstage, watching everything. When need arose,

he would pop out his shining bald head and shout a command. Then he would bow, shake hands with whoever was around, and smile disarmingly to straighten matters out.

The powder and perfume of the women singers always attracted a number of young men who could be very troublesome. Pao Ching kept shooing away these stage-door loiterers. They upset the girls too much. But here, too, was a difficulty. Some of the men might be personal friends of important people round town. If they were, he usually invited them to come backstage to take tea with him. One of them might volunteer to come on the sLage and present him with a scroll to enhance hivS prestige. What worries a theater man could have!
By eight o'clock the house was packed — though not with paid admissions. It was full because of the number of complimentary tickets which Pao Ching had handed out. But he was delighted. A full house meant good luck. He galloped to the front and excitedly told the men at the door to put out the “Full House” sign. Then, his palms damp, he returned backstage and signaled to start the show.

The first number was a song sung by a local artist — shrill, tuneless, inexpert. The audience paid him no attention, but continued to talk and drink their tea.

Pao Ching peeped from behind the curtain. The theater was wider than it was deep. In front of the small stage were rows of wooden benches. Along the sides were many round tables, each with four or five chairs. The curtains on either side of the stage were embroidered with green leaves and bright red peonies, and bore his own name. He had had them made specially in Shanghai. The walls were hung with decorative banners and scrolls, and with pictures presented to him and Lotus Charm by famous people in various parts of the country. Although it was small, the theater looked attractive. A pair of huge gas lamps hung in front of the stage, throwing out greenish-white rays that showed the faces of the audience glaringly. Pao Ching smiled. He had done it all himself. And there was his name embroidered on every curtain and hanging. Wherever his eyes caught a picture or a scroll, he remembered a page of his personal history： in Shanghai, in Nanking and so many other cities, where he had appeared and made lifelong friends.

He stared out at the audience from behind the curtain. In the first two rows sat the local people. The rest of the audience were mostly people from “down river.” Even most of the locals were people who had lived and worked in other provinces, and were now back in Chungking because of the war. They came to listen to Pao Ching just to show the others that they had traveled, and could understand him. Pao Ching looked long and hard at some people sitting in the wings. Some were amateurs who were well-trained in the art and had come to see il Pao Ching and his troupe were any good* They sat with their backs to the stage. They wanted only to listen, not to look. For them the girl singers' faces had no interest. With his brow furrowed, Pao Ching watched their reaction. If his and Lotus Charm's singing came up to their standards he would have them as regular customers.

Gradually the audience became quieter and quieter. Pao Ching knew that meant the program was improving. It meant also that the audience had had enough tea and had cracked all their melon seeds. There was nothing else for them to do but to pay attention to what was happening on the stage.

Now it was Lotus Charm’s turn.

Little Liu had already tuned his san-hsien instrument. Slowly he came on stage, carrying the instrument tenderly in his hand. His small, handsome face was glistening pale in the greenish gas light. His gray silk long gown fitted him like a sheath of silver. Silently he sat at the table, put down his instrument with exaggerated care, and began to pull up the sleeves of his gown. Then, he picked up the instrument, put it in position and tried it for tune with the plectrum in his fingers. He tilted his head to listen to the tone and pitch. Then he stared at one of the hanging banners, an almost disdainful expression on his face, as though he hated being merely an accompanist.

Beside the table stood the drum which Pao Ching had carried thousands of miles, and the drumstick not much longer than an ordinary chopstick. Then there was a pair of red castanets with black tassels. The cloth on the table was green silk embroidered with red and white lotus blossoms, and three big characters which read “Fang Lotus Charm.”
Slowly the stage curtain began to move. uTake it easy! Take it easy! Reserve your voice!，f Pao Ching advised her before she went on. The curtain rose higher and Lotus Charm walked sedately out, a lovely creature from another world, a child draped in all the glamour of show business.

For a moment she stood still, as if sizing up her audience. Then she lifted her little round face, a mischievous smile scattering along the sides of her nose.

She wore a black crepe gown with white floral patterns on the short sleeves. On her wrist glistened a tiny watch. Her two little braids, tied with red ribbons, hung in front of her shoulders. The red ribbons matched her red lips. And as she walked, she seemed to dance.

Her slim figure undulated seductively as she walked to the drum stand and took the drumstick. Twice she beat the drum and immediately Little Liu started to play his stringed instrument. Following the melody, Lotus Charm beat the drum only occasionally, sparking the rhythm in casual style. Her eyes were fixed on the center of the drum. But the smile was still there, as if she had just thought of a joke and wanted to laugh but could not.

Presently the drum and the stringed instrument stopped playing. Lotus Charm smiled a little and looked down at the audience. Then she said shyly and softly that she was going to sing a passage from ^Western Chambers. M Thereupon she started beating her drum energetically.
“Western Chambers” was the most difficult ballad to sing to the drum and castanets. Only three or four famed artists dared to tackle it. Everybody knew the love story of Ying Ying who sent her maid for her lover, Chang. But the long lyrics and complicated musical passages usually frightened singers away from it. It was written for the rhyme and pronunciation of colloquial Pekingese. If it was sung by a person with a nimble tongue, who could speak good Mandarin, the vocal pattern could be vivid and clear as dewdrops on a lotus leaf. But in the mouth of a less expert singer it was likely to sound terrible.

When Lotus Cliarrn announced her number, her voice was so faint that she could hardly be heard by the well-trained amateurs sitting at the far end of the wings, their backs to the stage. But when she finished the first verse they all turned round to see who was singing this difficult number. Though her voice was not strong, her diction was flawless. She disposed of the first long phrase in one breath, rolling it out of her little throat like a string of pearls. Each word was a jewel, round, firm, iridescent. Twenty-seven words — uThe sweet girl of sixteen was too tired to sit at her dressing table, for she was Chu Ying Ying lying in bed suffering from a long sickness.”
From beginning to end, Lotus Charm appeared to be singing with great restraint, as if she did not care to please the audience. But whenever she came to a difficult passage, she sang it correctly. And never once did she skip a treacherous cadenza as some singers do. Gradually the tempo of her ballad became faster and faster，but she looked casual and mischievous about the whole thing, singing nonchalantly and with exquisite feeling. When she came to the final cadence, she could have raised her voice to a climactic high pitch to win the audienceJs applause as most professionals did, but she finished it on the ordinary note. Then she placed the stick gently on the drum, and bowed low, so low that the ends of her braids touched the drum. After that, she turned and walked slowly toward the exit. As she got nearer the exit she started to run, like a school girl delighted to be freed from class.

Not until she had pulled the curtain behind her at the exit was there a wave of applause. The people in front did not know what she was singing about. The applause came from the amateurs sitting in the wings. Even if her voice was weak they applauded her because they knew it was not easy for a girl so young to sing such an intricate ballad flawlessly.

Little Liu knew that this number Lotus Charm had chosen was most complicated, and he was glad he had come through without making a mistake. When Lotus Charm finished he gave a sigh of relief, smoothed himself and walked off stage after her.

Some of the audience stood up as if to leave. They were disappointed because I^otus Charm had sung without even giving them a glance, and worse still, she had sung something they could not understand.

Then the cloth on the table was changed again. This time it was embroidered with a stork and a deer，with two large muldcol-ored characters： ^Jeweled Lute/* The audience sat down again. They might as well stay to see if Jeweled Lute was any less disappointing.

Little Liu came out first. This time he twanged the strings louder when he tuned the instrument. If all he tried to do when he was playing for Lotus Charm was not to make a mistake, it was obvious that now he wanted to show off his talent. His instrument tuned, he seemed to be waiting anxiously for Jeweled Lute to appear. His eyes were fixed on the curtain at the entrance.

And finally Jeweled Lute emerged from behind the curtain. With her head lowered she walked quickly to the drum stand, as though she was in a hurry to finish her number because she had some important matter to attend to after singing.

She was naturally tall, but tonight she had high-heeled shoes on, and her curly hair was piled high on her head, helping her to look like a tall European showgirl in Chinese costume. Her face was carefully made up, and a bright red gown sheathed her body. Her ears, fingers, and wrists were encrusted with fake diamonds she had borrowed from her mother. They shone and sparkled gaudily.

The stage is a strange world. It can make an ugly woman beautiful. Jeweled Lute was not very attractive, but art and artifice made everything about her colorful and shiny. She took on an exotic and mysterious fascination which made the audience applaud her the moment she came on stage.

What did the music matter! Her drum beats were heavy and out of rhythm, and the music was discordant. Little Liu plucked the strings of his instrument with all his might. To give more power to his finger tips he bent back a little, biting his lower lip under the strain of his efforts.

All this noise — the drum, the castanets, the stringed instrument —would have made many nauseated. But the audience sat absorbed, as though they had been appreciating this kind of noise all their lives.

Jeweled Lute was quickly aware of her success, so she concentrated on assuring herself some spare-time occupation. She fixed her eyes on one man for a while, then shifted to another. And to each she gave a sign, changing her eyes from brown to black and from black to brown. When she finished her first number, she announced she was going to “offer” a special number called “Madam Tu”. That was a love story about a woman who threw her jewel case into the river when she found out her lover was going to sell her to another man to raise money. Th^ audience was delighted. There was a huge round of applause.

Her voice was large and shrill, with croaking undertones. Because she shouted rather than sang there were no soft notes. What did it matter if her words were not clear, or if mispronounced. No one cared what she sang. The men felt her eyes and liked the glances she gave them. That was more important to Jeweled Lute than pronouncing her words.

It didn't matter whether Little Liu's accompaniment kept up with her. He held his arm well away from the imstrument and plucked the strings lustily. His heavy playing and her shouting matched each other perfectly, even when they were out of tune. The audience watched them absorbed.

After about twenty minutes of clanging pandemonium, Jew-eled Lute came to the end of her ballad. She bowed her head, and wagged her face slowly from left to right, and back again. Then she straightened and walked slowly away, her hips swinging in exaggerated fashion. Thunderous applause followed her.

Pao Ching was the last on the program — the position of honor — the star.

His personal banner for the table was of red serge. Il was plain except for three words ^Fang Pao Ching，5 cut out in black satin. As ihe tablecloth was put on the table the doors at the back of the theater opened and the people began to stream out — who wanted to listen to a man sing after all that sex on high heels? But a few of them remained, politely bored.

The curtain went up, and the gas light was shining greenly on the shiny bald head of Pao Ching. He smiled and nodded as he walked forward across the stage to thank the audience for their applause. He was dressed in a long voluminous navy blue silk gown and black satin slippers of thousand'layer soles. He always dressed appropriately for the occasion.

With confidence he walked to the drum stand as the audience watched curiously. As to those ignorant people who had walked out on him, he did not mind at all. He had confidence in his own art. The amateurs could appreciate his singing. Why worry about the young men who had just left. After all, they only came to the theater to gape at the women players.

His drum beat was very simple, and was similar in rhythm to Lotus Charm’s. But he beat more heavily, drawing deeply resonant and pleasing sounds from the heart of the drum. His eyes were fixed on the face of the drum, to select the right moment and the right spot on which to beat. The drum was his slave. His beat controlled Little Liu's accompaniment, which was now graceful and in harmony.

After his first number Pao Ching thanked the audience for their kind patronage. He apologized for anything which might have escaped his attention on this opening day. Soon, he said, the theater would be perfect for their comfort. He meant to say all this with dignity and fluency of speech, but occasionally he lost the words he had rehearsed. When he became inarticulate he just smiled, and the audience forgave him. They applauded heartily, which pleased him.

He announced his next number —“On the Long Bent Bridge, ^ a tragic story taken from The Three Kingdoms, telling how a fighting general and his baby prince were lost in battle.

Even before he started to sing* the audience was hushed. They could sense that here was a great artist, his heart in his work. A change had come over Pao Ching. His smile was gone, his eyebrows were stiff, and his eyes concentrated on the center of the drum.

The opening words burst from his throat in magnificent cadence： uThe battle raging in the faraway hills, suffering people whose blood flew red in the air ...” The audience was spellbound —gripped in silence* No one dared to cough. Pao Ching7s voice came rolling out, round and firm, each word delivered with feeling. He sang slowly to give the greatest value to every tone. Tender or brave, sober or gay, each word was handled with exquisiteartistry.

Pao Ching's singing demonstrated that drum singing is the best marriage between folk literature and folk music. He acted as he sang： 41 Loyalty and fidelity are esteemed through the ages, life is of no importance if one doesn't die bravely. r He could also be sad and tender with heart-rending effect： “Mrs. Mei had the prince in her bosom. Following the movement of the moon, she shed her tears in the bleak autumn wind.” Such effects could only be obtained with the perfect blending of words and music, which was the art of the great singer.

Pao Ching dramatized the song with gestures and body movements. His drumstick was a magic wand to represent anything in the story. When he held it horizontally, it became a bright sword; when he held it vertically, it meant a shining spear; when he moved it in the air, a furious combat was taking place on the battlefield. When he stooped, it signified he had just walked out of a door in the story. A step with his foot and he had mounted the horse.

When Lotus Charm and Jeweled Lute sang, they also dramatized the story. But Lx>tus Charm lacked the dramatic power of Pao Ching, while Jeweled Lute overacted. Pao Ching was an expert technician. His pantomiming not only helped to give an impressive dramatic clarity to the story, but it also enhanced the val-ue of the music.

Occasionally he gave a monstrous beat on the drum, and the stringed instrument paused. Then into the silence he would roll ten or fifteen rhyming lines, just as if he were talking. A heavy beat on the drum and the stringed instrument would come in with perfect timing.

In this number Pao Ching had told and acted out the story of the baby prince’s mother who killed herself, and the gallant general who fought his way out of encirclement, carrying the baby prince in his arm. And as he sang the audience were sure that from his mouth came the thunder of horses, hoofs and the bloodthirsty cries of the soldiers.

And finally Pao Ching came to the lyrics in praise of the brave, loyal general whose name would live forever. This with tender pride and patriotism that gripped all who heard him. Then with sweeping bow he left the stage. The show was over. The applause rose to the roof and thundered.

Wiping the perspiration from his forehead, Pao Ching went out in front to thank the audience for their acclaim. There were cheers again. He could not make himself heard. “Wonderful! Wonderful! they shouted.
“Thank you, thank you, ” he managed，smiling. “See you tomorrow. Come again — we have many more numbers. Please come again. M As he spoke, he tugged at the navy blue silk that was sticking to his back. It was soaking wet.


ourth Master Tang was in a hurry to get Jeweled Lute's share of the first night’s take，and as usual he was sure everyone was conniving to cheat him. He gave Pao Ching and the man in the box-office a searching, distrustful look, while they were anxiously trying to settle the accounts. From the box-office he went backstage to see if the company were behaving, then back to the front again. He wanted the money in his hands quickly, before the others might rob his daughter of a single penny.

Mrs. Tang was too fat to watch the accountancy herself. If she wedged herself in the box-office there would be no room for anyone else. So she sat like a Buddha in the largest chair back-stage, and kept her eyes on what she thought her husband couldn’t see. She wanted to get her hands on the money more than anyone. Meanwhile she chatted with Lotus Charm in a friendly manner, enjoying her innocent prattle. Mrs. Tang had motherly instincts, and admired innocence in others.

Because of the large number of complimentary tickets given out, the proceeds of the show were not large enough to provide the agreed “shares” for all the actors. According to the usual practice, the loss should be shared proportionately among them. But Pao Ching generously announced that because this was the opening night, he would give up his own share altogether so that everyone else would get a full share： he wanted all the artists to turn up the next night; after all, he had to buy the good will of his workers.

When Fourth Master Tang heard this, he was more suspicious than ever. Having never made a sacrifice himself, he could not believe that anyone would give up anything. Pao Ching must have cached some of the money away; he was just showing off his generosity, and Tang wasn’t going to let him get away with that.

But the receipts and the accounts were there right in front of his eyes. Fourth Master Tang could find no error. He hurried over to his wife and whispered in her ear. What should they do? How could they trick this cunning Pao Ching? They had both been living on Jeweled Lute for ten years. They had been cheated before. They had to think of some way to squeeze something more out of Pao Ching, even if only half a dollar.

After a minute of whispering Mrs. Tang decided to accept the cash allotted to Jeweled Lute. She wanted to feel it in her pocket, next to her skin; it would be safe there. Then Fourth Master Tang was to take Jeweled Lute home, and leave Mrs. Tang alone to handle Pao Ching. She was a woman. If she lost out, she could forget the whole matter and not lose face by the defeat. It was worth trying, anyhow. She drew a deep breath, folded her hands across her vast stomach, and waited.

Jeweled Lute wanted to leave herself. There must be many people outside waiting to look at her. Rich men, perhaps, and handsome playboys. She liked to be looked at. When people looked at her as they did, she felt really beautiful. So with considerable wiggling of her hips, she went out, her father following at a discreet distance.

Meanwhile Mrs. Tang sat giggling foolishly like an old hen who had just laid an egg. Suddenly she stopped. “Pao Ching，” she cried，“come over here. I want to talk to you. It is most important! "
Pao Ching knew that nothing she could have to say would be pleasant. But he went over, smilingly. “What do you want to say to me, my dear Mrs. Tang?n he asked.
“I want to ask you just this. Who won most applause in tonight’s show?”
“Jeweled Lute，undoubtedly. She has personality, ” Pao Ching admitted very frankly.
“Good. You’re telling the truth at last，Pao Ching. Now I will tell you the truth. We are working together — the two families. But my beautiful talented daughter got the most applause. That means she is a drawing card; so, if she is a drawing card, she should have a larger share. Don’t you agree?”
Pao Ching did not want to tell her that even if Jeweled Lute studied another three years, her singing technique would not match that of Lotus Charm. That her voice was loud and vulgar. Neither did he want to remind her that if he had not formed the company. Jeweled Lute would not have made a cent. He smiled disarmingly at Mrs. Tang.

Mrs. Tang smiled back at Him. “Pao Ching — please don’t just stand there and smile. Do something. If you don’t want to pay more to a good artist, my daughter will ..."
“Will what?” Pao Ching’s thick eyebrows shot up. He was annoyed now. In two weeks he had walked holes in a dozen pairs of socks just to give everybody a chance to make a little money. And he expected some appreciation. Now this greedy old blabbermouth ...

Mrs. Tang relented quickly when she saw Pao Ching’s expression. “Don’t tell me you don’t know what she’ll do, Pao Ching. You know show business! ”
“I don’t know.” Pao Ching could suppress his anger no longer. “And I don’t care.” He had been up before dawn. All day he had worked, talked, argued, persuaded, praised. He had sung, and not earned a cent. He hadn’t had his dinner yet, and was at the end of his patience. He merely glared at her.
“All right, ” Mrs. Tang muttered. She struggled to ease her enormous body out of the chair. ^From the way it looks, you are not going to give in — not even a cent.
“Why should I? I worked for nothing today, and you all have taken a full share. You aren't reasonable at all. M
“But there is professional prestige，my friend. Jeweled Lute should get at least one dollar more than Lotus Charm. She’s worth it.”
Pao Ching shook his head very firmly. “No — not a cent.”
“All right, my short-sighted friend, we’ll see you tomorrow.” Mrs. Tang waddled away. At the door she stopped and turned slowly around. u〇r perhaps we won5t see you tomorrow .^
“As you like，Mrs. Tang, ” shouted Pao Ching. His face was livid with anger.

Useless Fang had taken Pao Ching^ wife, Mrs. Fang, back to the hotel. Lotus Charm was waiting for her father in the theater. Ever since Lotus Charm had been on the stage, she had waited for Pao Ching to take her home after the show. If the weather was good and the theater was not too far away from where they lived, they would walk under the clear night sky.

These walks after the show were among the happiest moments in Pao Ching^s life.

He always walked at a slow pace so Lotus Charm could easily keep up with him. With his hands clasped behind his back, his shoulders relaxed, and his head bent, he walked in slow luxurious content. A walk like this allowed him to forget his desperate fatigue. And usually Lotus Charm took advantage of these walks to tell him all her little grievances. Pao Ching liked to listen to her complaints. Sometimes he would comfort her; sometimes he said nothing, except to make clicking noises with his tongue. Sometimes he would take her to a little restaurant nearby for something good to eat. He enjoyed seeing her shining black eyes lit with anticipation, as she waited for her favorite dishes. Sometimes he would take her to a bazaar and buy hep a toy. Although Lotus Charm was already fourteen she still like to play with dolls and toys.

But tonight after Mrs. Tang had left, Pao Ching paced back and forth on the stage, his hands clasped tightly behind him. Suppose Mrs. Tang really did not let Jeweled Lute sing tomorrow! Well, he could do without her, even though she was an attraction for the common folk.
“Father,” Lotus Charm called softly, “shall we go home now?”
When Pao Ching saw her small appealing {ace, he smiled. This charming creature was so different frqni Jeweled Lute. Anyhow, Jeweled Lute was not worth getting upset about. The Tangs would probably rather have her sell her body than her art. And she’d make more money，too! But Lotus Charm was still a human flower in bud. Although she had been associating with singing girls for more than four years，she had not acquired any of their evil ways. “Yes, let’s go, ” Pao Ching agreed. “Let’s walk home. M He had forgotten his troubles. He was thinking of all the fun he had had with her on their walks home after the shows in Peiping, Tientsin, and Shanghai.

When Pao Ching and Lotus Charm emerged from the theater the streets were almost empty. Most of the shops were closed and the street lights were out. Pao Ching walked slowly, his head bowed, his hands behind his back. He felt wonderfully relaxed. He was glad the streets were dim — so that people could not recognize them. They were alone. He didn^ have to greet someone every few steps. He walked even slower so that the pleasure of being unrecognized and relaxed would last longer.
**Father, Lotus Charm asked softly.
“Huh?” Pho Ching was deep in thought.

uWhy were you so angry with Mrs. Tang just now, father? What shall we do if Jeweled Lute really quits tomorrow?” Her dark eyes regarded him thoughtfully. When she was alone with her father she liked to talk like a grownup, to impress him that she was no longer a child interested only in playing with dolls.
“It doesn’t …doesn’t matter. With her we’ll eat. And without her we’ll eat too.” Pao Ching always acted self-confident in front of his family. Sometimes he bluffed. But it was a kindly practice — to give them a sense of security.
“But Jeweled Lute can do something else so they won’t starve.”
Pao Ching cleared his throat. So Lotus Charm knew the facts of life. He should have known that, seeing she was with singing girls much of the time. With a smile in his voice he asked, ^What other kind of ‘business’ does she do?”
Lotus Charm giggled. “I don’t exactly knowHer voice had a hint of apology, because she had said something which she could not enlarge on. “Perhaps I shouldn’t have put it that way, should I，father?”
Pao Ching did not answer immediately. He was not alarmed that Lotus Charm did not know quite how Jeweled Lute made money on the side. After all, she sang — love songs and ballads every day without understanding them. But he was worried be-cause the girl had to grow up into a woman. What kind of a worn-an would she be? His shoulders tensed again, feeling as if a heavy burden had been put on them.

After a long pause he said，“I’ve nothing to learn from Fourth Master Tang — and there is no reason why you should learn from Jeweled Lute either. Do you hear?"
“Yes，father, I hear，” Lotus Charm said. But her tone did not sound as though she understood what he meant.

They walked the rest of the way home without talking.

When they got to the hotel Pao Ching remembered that he and Lotus Charm had not eaten dinner. He felt empty inside as he climbed the stairs. He hoped there was something to eat at home. It would be nice to have a happy meal with the whole family, to celebrate the opening.

To his surprise, Mrs. Fang was still sober, and she had prepared dinner for them.

Pao Ching was suddenly happy — so happy that the day’s worries vanished altogether. He was easy to please. A little show of kindness — and he would be in the best of humor, even if he had been desperately unhappy a moment before. Now, he wanted to say something to praise his wife. “A meal. That’s wonderful，” he burst out. She gave him an angry look.
“What else did you expect?” she snapped.

Pao Ching’s face fell. “Oh，don't get mad, please,” he pleaded. “I’m tired.”
Useless Fang had been in bed for a long time already. He felt tired because he had supervised the ceremony for the opening. Pao Ching woke him up and asked him to join them for dinner-
Lotus Charm tried to help her father create a happy atmosphere. She called her mother "Mama" in a tender affectionate voice, and helped her sister Phoenix Girl prepare the food.

Mrs. Fang never showed any love toward Lotus Charm. She kept such tenderness as she had for her own daughter.

Phoenix Girl was two years older than I》tus Charm, but she looked at least twenty-three or four. She was a plump, stocky girl, not much taller than Lx)tus Charm, but wider everywhere. She had an undistinguished oval face, and her cheeks were always pimply. She usually wore a navy cotton gown> and did her abundant black hair in one severe long braid down her back. Generally she looked as if she had all the troubles of the world. When she happened to smile, she showed attractive teeth, in beautiful even rows. Smiling, she looked much prettier and younger.

In recent months, Lotus Charm had come to realize that she herself was an orphan, and that her appearing on the stage as a drum singer made her a person of low class. Phoenix Girl had no beauty nor could she sing, but Lotus Charm knew she had social standing. Whenever Phoenix Girl smiled at her, she was sure there was hidden sarcasm in it, as if she was laughing at her.

After dinner, Useless Fang went back to bed. Mrs. Fang had not had enough to drink to make her happy. When everyone had finished, she shouted, “Go away from me, all of you. Leave me in peace to have my drink.”
Pao Ching, Phoenix Girl» and Lotus Charm were undecided. If they left her alone, she might lose her temper. If they stayed, her drinking might go on all night. Pao Ching needed rest badly, but he dared not go for fear she would start a quarrel. He nibbled his lip. He wanted this day to end happily; that would mean a blessing and good luck. At all costs he must avoid a squabble at the last moment.

He tried to stifle a yawn as he looked down at his wife. She looked at him and winked suggestively, solemnly declaring that she would not drink more.

Pao Ching was too exhausted to stay awake any longer. He let out a loud yawn and settled into a chair. Mrs. Fang regarded him sadly. “Go，go to sleep, and sleep yourself to death, M she snarled. Her eyes were darkly outraged.

Pao Ching did not answer. He nodded to the two girls and walked out. In his own room he stretched out on the bed, sighed, and slept. This had been a day, and no mistake.
“Phoenix!”Mrs. Fang said. “Never marry a showman. He is always too tired for anything after the show at night! M Then she looked at Lotus. “Heng! A show girl is still worse! ”
Lotus Charm gasped, but said nothing.


hree vacant rooms in the theater were rented as a meeting place to a group that twice a week sang Peiping opera. They had learned a few arias while living in Peiping and back in Chungking had formed a music club. Apart from the few hours the club of opera fans met, the rooms were always empty.

The music lovers did not know many operas. Even if all of them were together they could not sing a complete opera. After a few meetings, they lost their enthusiasm for Peiping opera, and many of them didn’t care to sing any more. If they turned up at the club rooms at all, they played mahjong. Bui the music club paid its rent every month, and officially occupied the three rooms to demonstrate that they were lovers of Peiping opera.

Pao Ching had to find a place to live. He could not stay on in that little hotel. But Chungking was getting more and more crowded every day. Shipload after shipload of people arrived every twenty-four hours, and it was almost impossible to find a place to live. There were those three vacant rooms over the theater. What could be better? He had to have them. But how about the Peiping opera lovers?

He went to see the club president. With subtle tact he made no mention of the empty rooms. Instead he talked about the ancient glories of Peiping opera and lauded the club president^ accomplishments in that field. Had he not heard his name and talent praised when he himself was in Peiping, in Shanghai, in Nanking? All over China in fact. And had not the Nanking newspapers given him glowing reviews when he had made a guest appearance in an opera there? (The truth was that the opera club president had never made any guest appearance anywhere. But he did not want to correct Pao Ching. ) From Peiping opera the subject turned to drum singing. Pao Ching edged in his point so gradually and with such charm that the club president was soon agree-ing that drum singing was second only to Peiping opera, although he had never heard any drum singing in his life. But Pao Ching was a cultured man from the cultured city of Peiping, and so he would welcome him as a friend. How great was the bond between real music lovers! Half an hour later the music club for lovers of Peiping opera was officially without its club rooms. An hour later Pao Ching and his family had moved in — over the theater.

Lotus Charm and Phoenix Girl shared one room, and Pao Ching and his wife the other. The center rcx>m they used as a living room. Useless Fang objected to making up his bed every night in the living room. He would stay and suffer in the little hotel. And he suffered in comfort, with a room all to himself, which gave him delightful privacy.

Pao Ching liked the new quarters. The rent was low and the rooms were right above the theater. What more could he ask! No more exertion of going to and from work every day. And he would now have time to manage the home himself.

But his content was short-lived. He should have known he could always count on the Tangs. Since the Tangs had failed to get a raise for Jeweled Lute, they had to think up other ways of making trouble for Pao Ching. They had their problems — the greatest of all, to make a living. They couldn’t tell Jeweled Lute to quit Pao Ching’s company，or they would be without money. But on general good principle they had to annoy Pao Ching. Fat Mrs.Tang was mistress of the art of irritating. Her husband had learned from her, and she saw to it that he did an efficient job.

One day she sent him to Pao Ching to ask for Jeweled Lute's salary in advance. The child had to have clothes; and they hardly had enough to eat. Then Jeweled Lute was sick, too sick to appear, so she must take a day off.

Pao Ching endured all this with resignation. It was silly to give in to these leeches, he knew, but he was sorry for them, because they had not learned how to live at peace with the world. They were not even discouraged when he refused to advance Jew-eled Lute’s carfare.

The day that the Fang family moved in over the theater brought a crisis. Fourth Master Tang, looking more like a frustrated weasel than ever, arrived at the theater soon after dawn. His eyes were heavy with reproach, and his mouth was down-turned with frustration.

He indicated to Pao Ching very plainly that the whole Tang family thought he was a monster for finding his family a place to live, and neglecting to do the same for his dearest and most faithful friends — the Tangs. “My friend，” he said with a hint of harshness，“you must do something for us. You have influence. You must use it to find us a place lo live. After all, you found luxurious quarters for yourself.

So Pao Ching promised. He was always promising, and he didn^ like to. It hurt him to have to promise, when he did not intend to do anything. But the Tangs forced this on him with their constant complaints, and he let Fourth Master Tang gabble on. He listened quietly, nodding his head and smiling.

Mrs. Tang, too, came to life socially. Every day she would waddle up to the apartment over the theater to see her dear friend Mrs* Fang — Pao Ching’s wife. Her visits were always the same. She would enter the living room with a broad, friendly smile on her face. “So here I am，” she would puff. “I’ve walked all this way specially to see you. After all, I said to myself, we are strangers in this wretched town, and so we should stick together. I feel absolutely lost if I don’t see my only friends every day. The thought of not seeing you makes me thoroughly unhappy"

Then after she had wedged her vast behind into the largest chair，she would begin her tirade. “Has that clever husband of yours found us a place to live?^ she would ask Mrs. Tang. “Has he? Now you must hurry him up. We are so unfortunate having to live in a hotel, and the cost is terrific. We simply cannot get along.”
And there she would sit for hours, drinking all the tea, eating everything she could lay her hands on.

There were other visitors too. The local police chief, the detectives, the gangsters, and a few rich young men. They came to look at Louts Charm, and often stayed longer than Mrs. Tang. And of course Pao Ching had to entertain them. Tea and melon seeds, and conversation.

Often they came before Lotus Charm was up. They would sit in the living room, their eyes on the cotton print curtain in the doorway to Lotus Charm^ bedroom. Pao Ching knew what they came for，but he dared not turn them out. If he did, a gang of them might show up at the theater one night and start trouble. A few teacups smashed, a shot or two fired at an electric light bulb, and there it was. One riot, and his business would be ruined.

Worst of all, among the young men who called early was the local sheriff — a handsome young man with a roguish smile, and a way with women. He just came and sat, a toothpick in his teeth, his eyes always on the door. One day one young man more daring than the others got up, and walked right into the room where Lotus Charm was asleep. The others followed.

Pao Ching found them all gaping at his daughter, and he did a lot of talking. Lotus Charm was tired. She needed a great deal of rest for her singing. Reluctantly they moved back into the next room, and sat waiting. Pao Ching was burning inside with anger. But he held his temper in check and kept his smile. This was life, this was show business. If only the police chief would give him some protection.

Or his wife. She could have stopped all this, if she had wanted to. All she had to do was tell these rascals that the only thing Lotus Charm had to sell was her art. If only his wife would explain that — but she wouldn’t. Mrs. Fang had her own plans for Lotus Charm.

Lotus Charm was embarrassed by all the attention. She guessed what the men wanted, and she wasn’t interested. But whenever she left her room, she had to face them. Usually she begged Phoenix Girl to come with her. Phoenix Girl always refused. She didn^ want to appear beside her beautiful sister. She knew that the men in the living room were there to feast their eyes on Lotus Charm, and that they wouldn’t give her a second look. So she told Lotus Charm to go out alone, and her attitude made it plain that her adopted sister was a man's plaything, while she was a lady with social status.

Finally Lotus Charm would walk out alone — like an actress making an exit. And she nearly always walked straight across the room — without giving any of the men a look 一 right into her mother’s room on the other side. She knew that she dared not give the men a glance, or they would all jump up and surround her.

These morning walks across the living rcx>m were sad experiences for her. She knew she was just an orphan — a little drum singer — and the most she could ever expect from her adopted mother was a little kindness. There would never be real affection. She had grown up now, and she needed love and advice.

With her womanhocxl in bloom, her little breasts showing to the world, and the soft curves revealing themselves under her gowns, she desperately needed security and comfort. And knowledge! There were things she wanted to discuss with Mrs. Fang, and dared not. Who then would tell her?

Each morning as she walked through the crowded living room, she hoped she would find her mother in a sweet, gentle mood. But usually Mrs. Fang was feeling mean. ''Go out and entertain your guests, worthless, M she would croak. With a fixed smile on her face, Lotus Charm would go back into the room, hoping with all her heart that she looked like a twelve-year-old and praying that her womanly figure might shrink away.

She had noticed what men did to girl singers — how they kissed their hands and stroked their thighs. She knew that girls went off with men, sometimes without their parents' permission. And she knew that streetwalkers were paid for something, but she didn't know for what. She relied implicitly on the protection of her father. Pao Ching was both mother and father to her, manager and tutor. Whenever she heard a story about a girl running off, or going to bed with a man, she thought it amusing, particularly because it was told in whispers.

She had noticed too, when she and her father sang at rich men s houses, that some of the girl singers allowed men to fondle them, and received fancy presents. She had asked Phoenix Girl why men gave presents to girls just to touch them. Phoenix Girl should know all the answers, with her social status, Lotus Charm thought. But Phoenix Girl merely got red in the face. Lotus Charm turned to Jeweled Lute, who made money on the side by going out with men, but Jeweled Lute only giggled and said, “You are too young. Children shouldn’t ask questions.”
The only thing was to ask Pao Ching. Lotus Charm found it extremely difficult, however, to put her question to her father. When she finally plucked up her courage, Pao Ching blushed. She had never seen a man so unhappy. She would always remember how he puckered his brow and rubbed his shiny pate thoughtfully with his hands. After a while, he said, ‘‘I "wouldn’t ask about such things, child. They are too low for you to think about. M Lotus Charm wasnH satisfied. She detected reproof in Pao Ching^s tone. Her face burned with sudden shame, and there was anger and frustration inside her. “But, father, ” she blurted out, “if that is low, then our business is low, too. I know lots of girls who do it ■ ”
“Some years ago,” Pao Ching said, “all opera singers and artists were considered of no account — little better than slaves and beggars. But times have changed. So long as we ourselves are honest and upright, we cannot be classed as lowly worthless people. ^ Lotus Charm thought awhile. Her father hadn^t told her how the social status of stage people had changed, though often he had told her that they were singing songs that were a thousand years old.
“Then why don’t we go in for some other kind of business, papa?” she asked.

Pao Ching didn’t answer.

Lotus Charm decided that her job was a lowly one; she would never amount to anything socially. This time, as she walked into the room full of men, she decided to be entertaining, to see what might happen. But she saw her father standing by the door, changed her mind, and ran like a mouse into her bedroom. There she stayed playing domino solitaire until it was time to go to the theater. When she went down, two of her admirers were still there.

Mrs. Tang kept up her visits. She knew why all the men were waiting in the living room, and she thought it would be amusing to entertain them. Also, she had decided to take revenge on the Fangs — her friendly enemies, those robbers who cheated her and her family of the good things of life. She started telling the men that all they needed to get Lotus Charm was enough money. Patience and money, she said-
But she had reckoned without Pao Ching. If one thing made him speak his mind, it was anything that menaced Lotus Charm. One day he opened up on Mrs. Tang. He was angry, his face red, his voice stern. Please, ** he said, uif you come here, go and sit in my wife's room. I don’t need you to entertain our guests.”
Mrs. Tang laughed. She snapped her fingers and cackled like a hen which has just laid a double-yolked egg. uHo! Ho! Is it wrong for me to entertain these charming people?" She spoke in a loud voice. **So, I am wrong. And they are all having such a good time.”
Pao Ching looked at her sternly, wrath in hks eyes. UI do not wish it，” he said. “I beg you to remember that this is not a house of prostitution. It is a theater — the home of the arts.”
Mrs. Tang s face spat venom as she said, “Huh，we’ll see. I’ve yet to find any good in our profession.”And with a swing of her gargantuan hips, she flounced back to the men.

For several days she stayed away. However, she told Jeweled Lute not to go backstage between her acts. If she wanted to rest, she said, she was to go to Lotus Charm's bedroom. She knew Pao Ching would hate that.

So Pao Ching had another worry. He wanted the two girls to become friends as much as he wanted the plague. And there was Jeweled Lute lolling in Lotus Charm’s room，with her heavy perfumes, and her lazy arrogance.

Jeweled Lute used Lotus Charm's room for make-up. She came early in the afternoon to fix her lips, her nails, her eyebrows. And she used all Lotus Charm's make-up. This Lotus Charm did not like. It was all right for Phoenix Girl to take some, but not a professional like Jeweled Lute. She earned money and should buy her own. Lotus Charm took her troubles to her father. Pao Ching shrugged his shoulders. He did not want to make an issue of such a little thing. “Don’t worry，” he said，“I’ll buy you more, when that is all used up.”
Lotus Charm knew he would, but she did not see why he should have to pay for Jeweled Lute's make-up.

“Look here，，，she said very firmly one day, “that powder of mine is expensive.”
Jeweled Lute grinned happily. “Of course, it is. That’s why I like it. I can’t afford it myself.’，And she used more，dabbing it under her arms and over her body, filling the room with fine white dust as she shook out the powder puff. Lotus Charm was pale with anger.

One day Jeweled Lute turned up with a man. They walked right into Lotus Charm's bedroom, and sat on the bed. Lotus Charm blushed, and got up to go. But she felt she could not leave Jeweled Lute in her room. She might steal everything she had. Besides, where was she to go? If vshe went to her mother, across the living room, there might be a scene. Yet she did not want to watch Jeweled Lute entertain a man. But then she thought she might as well see what happened when a girl entertained a man. Was it really low? She would have to know one day. So she sat down to watch.

Jeweled Lute and her guest were talking and joking like ordi-nary people. There seemed nothing wrong with that. Then they held hands, but it still didn't seem bad. When finally they left, Lotus Charm wondered if the man had paid money just to sit on the bed and talk to Jeweled Lute.

Then one day she walked into her bedroom. Jeweled Lute was lying on the bed with a man kissing her.

Lotus Charm was furious. She wanted to throw them out, but she could not offend Jeweled Lute because of her father^ business. At the same time, she was curious to see what they were doing. The thought made her blush. She ran into her mother’s room. She thought her mother would know how to deal with such matters better than she.

Mrs. Fang was half drunk, but she sensed what was going on. She grunted to herself. This daughter of hers. A silly little virgin. Of course a virgin was worth more than a professional, but what tiresome ideas some girls had. Let Jeweled Lute earn an extra dollar! The girl had to have a bed somewhere. Perhaps it would be a good thing if Lotus Charm lost hers. It would open Pao Ching^ eyes. He was stupid about this girl. Whoever heard of keeping an adopted daughter like a queen. Mrs. Fang’s thoughts were ugly as she squinted at her frightened daughter.
“Oh，get out，” she cried. <4You are a show girl like her. Who do you think you are?”
She raised her wine cup and held it in mid-air, as if making a decision. Then she suddenly threw it at Lotus Charm. It missed, but the liquid spattered brown-yellow over Lotus Charm's dress.

For a moment Lotus Charm stood speechless, unable to think, powerless to move. So her mother wanted her to be like Jeweled Lute. Her mother didn't care, didn't love her. Black rage rose in Lotus Charm^ heart. She wanted to strike this woman, to rip her coarse skin with her nails, to curse her.

But she turned and ran down to the theater in search of Pao Ching. He was not there. To the front of the house. Where was he? She went back to the darkened stage. There she stood and stamped her feet and cursed. Only the echo of her anger came back from the empty house.

Then blindly she walked out — to the only friendly person in the whole world, Useless Fang.

Lotus Charm ran all the way across town to the hotel where Useless Fang lived.

4tTell me the whole story, M he said, with all the solemnity of a judge ordering a witness to relate liis version of a crime. As he heard Lotus Charm's story he released a string of oaths, descriptive of his judgment on Jeweled Lute and her parents.

His suggestions, however, were less than judicial. He would go to the theater and beat Jeweled Lute till she could no longer wag her bottom at a man. He would challenge the entire Tang family to a duel. He would express himself forcibly to fat old Mrs. Tang. Lotus Charm shook her head. None of these would do. Her father s business must not be upset on her account.

Useless Fang sat on the bed, and scratched his head with his long dirty fingernails. Then what should be done? The situation was intolerable.

Having told her story Lotus Charm felt better. Useless Fang loved her, she was sure, and it was pleasant to have such a sympathetic listener. And his cursing was educational. Such scholarly epithets.

Useless Fang had a ready suggestion. If Lotus Charm had funds they could go to a restaurant and eat. Or they could buy some tangerines. He knew where for fifty cents they could buy enough tangerines to give the whole family a stomach ache. And he knew a pleasant spot on the hillside where they could sit and eat them.

Lotus Charm suggested it would be better if he took her home, because her father would be worried.
“Let them all worry, ” said Useless Fang. “There is no need to go back to that den of vice until it is time for the show. If they dare scold you I will tear down the whole theater with my own hands. Come, let as go buy the tangerines. I shall think better on a full stomach’ as my eyes enjoy the beauty of nature.

he war news was bad. Hankow had fallen. Refugees from the northern provinces and the seacoast were flocking into Szechwan. More people in the already crowded city meant more business for Pao Ching’s theater. His was the only professional troupe organized for theatrical refugees. The audiences liked to hear them, because most of them were strangers from other parts of the country; and Pao ChingJs artists were to their taste. As for those who appreciated drum singing, they found Pao Ching's theater the only interesting entertainment spot in town. It was home from home for them.

Szechwan is a rich province, with an abundance of rice, sugar, salt, fruit, vegetables, medicinal herbs, tobacco, and silk. Even the cost of living there was lower than in other parts of the nation. This, and his increased income, gave Pao Ching a chance to save some money. He was planning to put by enough to build his own theater. If he had a theater of his own, he could run it like a school and take in a few pupils. Under him they would learn to become good artists, instead of mere entertainers. Having a theater and a school would be his goal in the entertainment world. Ballad singers of the future would boast that they studied at the Pao Ching school under his tutorship.

Whenever he thought of building his theater and establishing a school, Pao Ching's heart would swell with simple joy and glad-

ness. But then, after a while, he realized that his was a great ambition, and he was afraid.

He paused sharply and rubbed his bald pate with his hands. Goodness, an ambition such as that was more than he could hope to realize. There was Lotus Charm to think of. Supposing ... He would have to watch her carefully, so carefully. And he sighed. He could only develop his career if nothing went wrong with her.

The foggy season came to Chungking. The city was enveloped from mom to dusk in thick gray mist. Business at the theater boomed. People came to see the show again and again, and those who might normally have spent their evenings in the streets, came inside to be free of the foggy gloom outside. But Pao Ching was always on the lookout for air raids. He and his family-had experienced too many to be careless. He realized with a catch of terror that most of the houses in the provisional capital were firetraps. Built of wood and flimsy as match boxes, they would blaze like tinder. Let one catch fire, and the whole city would be a flaming torch in a few hours*
The fog banished to menace of the Japanese planes. Sometimes it was so dense that one could not see people walking in the streets. And because of the protective blanket of fog the inhabitants became lighthearted. The war was miles away again. Life was normal. It was time for pleasure and for visits to the theater.

The fog made the vegetables grow fast in Szechwan Province. They were lush and green and succulent, larger than any Pao Ching had ever seen. And Pao Ching's business was equally flourishing. The theater was always full, Lotus Charm was winning applause, and the clientele was faithful and respectful. What more could an actor-manager desire? Prosperity and prestige were his in those fog-bound days, as the great drama of war moved interminably across the country.

But there was always Jeweled Lute, the glittering raucous singer, the entertainer of men, the star attraction of the show. And her family, the Tangs, with their greedy hearts and scheming minds. They made no social calls on the Fangs now. When they called it was for business* to collect their money or to squeeze something extra from the till. Pao Ching understood them well.

On one occasion he purchased some food, rare delicacies that the Tangs did not often have, and took them personally to the family. He was determined to keep the peace; and above all he wanted to have his mind at rest. It was fatiguing to work with suspicion and uncertainty in his mind.

He greeted fat Mrs. Tang with a broad warm smile. “Such a long time since I have had the pleasure of seeing you, Mrs. Tang. How are you? I have brought you something good to eat. I am sure you will like it. M Mrs. Tang made no sign of accepting the gift. There was no smile on her heavy stolid face. Her voice sounded bored and pained. “My dear Pao Ching，you are rich now. We humble people don’t dare come to see you any more.”
Pao Ching looked shocked. “We should be thankful，” he said scornfully. uWe are mere entertainers. We are lucky to be able to make a good living while millions of others are dying and starving . ”
Mrs. Tang’s mouth went down at the corners. “But you are so fortunate. You are talented yourself. My husband is no good at all. If he had your ability he could form his own company and have his own theater. Perhaps he will.，J The lips turned up a tri-

fie, and a smile that was cousin to a sneer moved upward on her face.
“With you to help him, Mrs. Tang, ” agreed Pao Ching，“a man should be able to accomplish anything." And quickly he changed the subject to trivialities. Smiling and laughing he overwhelmed her with charm, until she responded, enjoying his company. Then with the touch of perfect timing, he bade her adieu.

But on the way home Pao Ching worried. Worry was like a shadow following him, even in his prosperity. If Fourth Master Tang could collect a few refugee performers, he might build his own company around Jeweled Lute. Of course it wouldn’t last long. Tang would cheat the artists, Mrs. Tang would scream at them and rob them too, and they would quit. But even short' lived competition could be a blow to Pao Ching’s enterprise-
He thought the whole matter over. He would never rest until he had made sure that the Tangs could do him no harm.

One night as he was finishing his act, the idea came. The key to the situation was Little Liu. If he could get the little musician on his side, the power was his. He would have the situation under his control. The Tangs could not work without Little Liu-Even Jeweled Lute could not sing without an accompanist. He had only to get a hold on Liu, and forever the worry of competition from the Tangs would be out of his mind. First he made inquiries as to whether there were any other refugee accompanists. There wasn't a one from Chengtu to Kunming. Little Liu was really a treasure worth his weight in gold.

For nights Pao Ching pondered the problem. One night he sat up in bed, and rubbed his bald pate with his damp palms. Of course — so simple. The best way to cinch Little Liu was to make him a member of the family. Have him marry Phoenix Girl. But his heart shrank from the idea. It wasn't fair to his daughter. Poor little Phoenix Girl. It was not right to marry her off to an accompanist, even if he was talented and a money maker. He remembered dimly that although he was an artist himself, he did not want his daughter to become a theatrical wife.

Phoenix Girl had done nothing to deserve such a fate. She was innocent and unassuming. And Little Liu was about as innocent as a buck rabbit. But the man’s morals did not worry Pao Ching so much as his profession. You had to accept your friends as they were.

One day he invited Little Liu to take a bath with him, in the best bath house in town. It was the first time he had ever invited the little musician. Little Liu was flattered. His delight showed all over. For two hours they talked as friends in the steaming bath house. Pao Ching led the conversation to everything but the subject on his mind. He took careful note, however, of the size of Little Liu!s feet. And he was sure he had it exactly by the time their afternoon ended.

The next time he invited Liu to take a bath with him Pao Ching brought with him a packet. He presented it to Little Liu, and stood to watch him open it. And Little Liu was as delighted as Pao Ching had hoped. The gift was the most expensive pair of satin slippers that Pao Ching could buy anywhere in Chungking-slippers fit for a millionaire, in rich fabric and good taste. As Little Liu slipped them on small neat feet, pleasure sparkled in his eyes. He arched his chest and held his head high. So they were close now, the musical artist and his benefactor.

Pao Ching waited his opportunity, like an expert swords-
man. Hardly had the talk turned to women, and the life of a bachelor, than he said with gentle insistence, uMy dear friend, why are you not married — a man of your talent and accomplishment. I have often wondered. Is there no one you like?*'
Little Liu came near to blushing. His lean artistic face took on the expression of a shamed school boy. Then he half laughed to cover his embarrassment. “There’s plenty of time for that. I am young yet. My art takes all my time, you know how it is.” He paused, and then as an afterthought he added： ^Besides, in time like these，it isn’t easy to support a family. Who knows what may happen?’，
<4But if you married someone who can earn a living, life could be exceedingly pleasant. Two people working to support one home. That’s the modern way，，，replied Pao Ching artlessly.

Liu's face reddened still more. He looked at Pao Ching with a helpless, lonely expression in his eyes. This kind man, this great artist who was so friendly to him. He was almost like a father. Could he tell him his troubles? Tell of the deep frustration, and of his love for Jeweled Lute? The Tangs were willing to give her to him. And Liu knew why. He and Jeweled Lute would be working forever to keep the pair of them. And that he was willing to do. But he wanted Jeweled Lute for himself. He knew her failings, and he shrank from the idea of marrying a girl whom he would have to share with other men. The thought of marriage to Jeweled Lute brought another desperate worry. His own health was fragile. Jeweled Lute was a healthy lusty animal. As a lover, he already knew, she was insatiable. No man could really satisfy her. He might ruin his health in trying to be a good husband, and his music might suffer. For nights now he had been tossing sleep-

lessly, wrestling with this problem. And still there was no answer nor anyone with whom to discuss it. He gave Pao Ching's kindly face a long questioning look.

And then he said, **My dear elder brother, suppose ...” He stopped short. Pao Ching did not like Jeweled Lute. Could he put hivs problem without mentioning her by name?
“Suppose what?” echoed Pao Ching. “Don’t hold anything back. We are friends, aren’t we?”
aItJs about me and Jeweled Lute, Little Liu blurted out. He made an explanatory gesture with his fingers. “We are — well, you know. M Pao Ching passed his hand over his pate. Then he said, “That is good news. As the saying goes, I would rather tear down seven temples than break up a marriage. So I wish you happiness. And why do you hesitate to get married?"
Little Liu poured out his troubles. Pao Ching gave him no advice. Instead he asked, uMy dear younger brother, one thing I would like to know. Are you satisfied with the way I treat you? I want to do the right thing by you — always.”
“Of course, ” answered Little Liu with quick enthusiasm, “I am completely satisfied. You are kind and generous. An example to all."
“Thank you. But if you were married to Jeweled Lute, would you feel eternally obligated to the Tangs, and forget me?” <<0h> no! v Little Liu sounded shocked. “Never shall I forget how wonderful you have been to me. And believe me, elder brother, I never listen to what others say against you. I am loyal to you, because you treat me so honorably. Believe me, I am not the sort who says one thing one moment, and the opposite five minutes later.”
“That’s fine. I appreciate it, M said Pao Ching. “I hope that you and Jeweled Lute will always be happy. And I hope that you Tftid I can always be as brothers. You know I have always liked you. Always I have thought how fine it would be if you and I swore a pate of brotherhood before Heaven.” He laughed. “How would you like to have me for an elder brother, Little Liu?，T Little Liu's eyes opened wide. He looked at Pao Ching with surprise, delight, and doubt. Then he smiled. <4But you are a famous vStar, and I am a humble musician. How could I presume to have you for an elder brother? I would not dare. n wPlease forget such things, M commanded Pao Ching. “Let us swear our pact of brotherhood and be forever brothers in the sight of Heaven.

When they parted, Pao Ching still had a feeling of uncertainty. He had won a battle perhaps, but not a compaign. Certainly he had a hold on Little Liu, but he was not altogether happy. Jeweled Lute and her mother were the real enemies. Those two would twist Little Liu round their fingers, if they decided. What worries a showman could have!
The New Year was coming. Pao Ching decided that he would make this New Year?s Day a particularly happy one. If he arranged a special celebration the family would not be so homesick. Besides he liked entertaining. He felt it helped to create a harmonious atmosphere in the family.

He gave Mrs. Fang some money and told her to take Phoenix Girl with her on a shopping expedition. She was a good shopper. In spite of her drinking and uncertainty of mood, she knew what to buy and the right price to pay. Sometimes he himself argued the shop clerks into bargains, but she always convinced him she could do better.

Getting the money pleased Mrs. Fang immensely. To celebrate, she had a drink. Then another, and another. When she took Phoenix Girl on the shopping trip she was barely able to walk. She had difficulty keeping her eyes open, but she was in a fine mood of arguing. The Szechwan shop-keepers enjoyed quarreling over their wares more than anything else. Mrs. Fang amused them no end. When she bought a catty of lima beans, on general good principle she would snatch a bunch of scallions and cram it into her bag. So she and her daughter were soon back, loaded with purchases; she had saved enough money to keep herself comfortably in liquor for many days.

Pao Ching went to see Useless Fang, his brother. He gave him some money and suggested they all should have a really Happy New Year.

Useless Fang smiled cynically. uNew Year in this godforsaken country? What would we do to celebrate? It^s out of the question. "He was feeling blue. With so much time on his hands, re-cently he'd been worrying about his age. Above everything else he didn't want to die away from his home town.
“Oh，don’t talk like that, dear brother, H Pao Ching laughed. “The further we are away from home，the more we should celebrate. That's why Tm giving you this money. I want you to have a good time and do whatever you wish. Please go out and buy yourself something.”
Useless Fang was not going to humble himself by taking the money from his brother. He pointed to the table. “I don’t want ihe money,he said, Ubut you can leave it over there — on the table.”
When Pao Ching was gone, Useless Fang went out. Soon he found a market where he bought a small green old-fashioned lampstand, a little stove known as a “cock-crowlamp” for steaming food slowly; a miniature water pipe made of bamboo; a pair of simulated jade earrings; and a ring of incense. Back home he wrapped the presents in red paper to distribute to the family on New Year’s Eve.

Pao Ching looked forward to the New Year with all the enthusiasm of an eight-year-old boy. Whenever he whiffed the odor of cooking, he could not help smacking his lips in anticipation of the New Year feast. And he took pains to make the family share his enthusiasm. Soon he had them all on tiptoe waiting for the great day. Even Phoenix Girl became interested in helping her mother in the kitchen.

Then the blow. On New Year's Eve Pao Ching's troupe was hired to entertain at a private party. Pao Ching was grieved. He had planned this party at home, to eat a festival meal with his family. But how could he refuse an engagement? He had to think of the others, and the money they would earn. He could not refuse this date, however much it hurt his heart to have his New Year celebrations upset.

When the engagement was over it was two in the morning. It was snowing outside. Lotus Charm，Little Liu, and Pao Ching set out to walk through the narrow streets, the snow settling on their clothes and melting on their faces. They were in a bad mood. Jeweled Lute had not shown up for the private engagement, and Little Liu was quite sure she was off with a man. He was furious to think that he had missed a New Year’s dinner with the Tangs-for nothing. And Lotus Charm was tearful and despondent.

Pao Ching cupped his hands to his mouth, and shouted for a litter. But his voice was lost in the curtain of snow. The litter carriers were at home celebrating the New Year. The streets were empty except for the Pao Ching players and the snowflakes. They trudged on. Occasionally they came to a house whose light still showed from behind the shades over the windows. And they heard the laughter of the people inside around their festive tables. Lotus Charm’s eyes filled with tears.

Suddenly a litter appeared，a dark mass moving unsteadily through the snow. Pao Ching hailed it. He didn't wait for the litter men to argue. He dipped his hand in his pocket and brought out a handful of silver coins.

But who was to ride and who was to walk? One litter would not take all of them. Little Liu suddenly ashamed of all the complaints he had made. “Let Lotus Charm ride, ” he said， “I can walk.”
“You get in，” Pao Ching ordered. “We enjoy walking. You must not risk your health. Step up, I beg you.”
Little Liu got into the litter. He was pleased at the deference shown him by his elder brother. He smiled and waved his hand. “Dear elder brother, ” he said, “I shall pay you a New Year call 一 most certainly.”
Pao Ching and Lotus Charm stood watching the litter disappear in the darkness. Lotus Charm was tired. Her collar was turned up and she had hidden her face behind it.
“Come，daughter，” said Pao Ching, “let us walk. Are you very tired?”

She walked a few steps before answering. “No，I am not tired, M she said. But her voice sounded as if she was exhausted. Pao Ching was tired too. He felt guilty that he and his daughter should be in the streets while others were celebrating.

But with an air of cheerfulness he said, “Lotus Charm，with the coming of the New Year you are another year older — fifteen. Did you remember that? This year you should be determined to do better at your work.”
Lotus Charm did not answer. After a while Pao Ching began again, ^Well, we are making good money now — so much that you should be able to make a respectable marriage.”
wWhy talk about that, father?" she inquired sharply. She was looking at her feet. Her shoes were ruined; and they were almost new.
“Because it is important. Every girl should be able to make a good marriage.

Her silence chilled him. They walked on. She was wondering why her father always had to talk business. And what difference did his earning more money make to her getting married?

They were home at last. Pao Ching clapped his hands and jumped up and down like a school boy. “Home at last. We’re home at last，” he kept saying. He hoped that someone would come out to meet them, but they walked upstairs alone, their dripping clothes making pools of water as they went.

Mrs. Fang was already drunk. She had gone to sleep on the bed, and was snoring. Useless Fang was in Lotus Charm’s room talking to Phoenix Girl. They both looked as gay as a funeral party. Useless Fang was drunk enough to be argumentative. “Money，money，money，” he was saying to Phoenix Girl, “what does it matter. And why do they have to make money on New Year’s Eve of all days. Life is too short. How many more New Year’s Eves will they have?”
Pao Ching slumped into an armchair in the living room. The red candles were still alight. They flickered before his misting eyes like yellow stars. Money ... money ... money ... was it worthwhile?

Lotus Charm went inside her room and lay down.
“Come on，niece, ” invited Useless Fang. “Come and play some cards. Aren* t you going to let your old uncle win a few pennies?"
uNo, uncle, M she said, her young voice ragged with weariness, u I want to sleep. M She turned her face to the wall.

Useless Fang sighed. He got up and went to the window, and looked at the falling snowflakes. <4Poor child! Poor Lotus! ” he whispered, and shook his graying head.


he foggy season ended in April, but fog still hung over Chungking in the mornings. It was pearly-white, fluffy and chilly, hanging over the city streets like a shroud until the sun vanquished it. The scarlet ball of the rising sun was alarming. It was sinister and bellicose; it also meant clear weather, which signaled the renewal of air raids. Chungking weather was divided sharply into two seasons： winter-cold, with fog; summer-heat, without fog-and danger. Everyone knew that as soon as the skies cleared the Japanese planes would come roaring overhead.

At the end of April the air-raid sirens were heard for the first time that year. The planes never appeared, but everyone was sure that the war was overhead again. The protective frontier of fog had vanished; they could expect the worst.

Pao Ching was seasoned to air raids. The ones he had been through were horrible. He decided to send Useless Fang to South Warm Springs, a village fifteen miles outside the city, and reasonably safe from attack. Useless Fang was to rent two rooms， in a hotel or anywhere he could find, so that the Fang family would have somewhere to go if Chungking was bombed.

Then came that memorable day in May. Dusk had already settled over the hills, the sun a distant ball of fire. Someone near the theater cried out that the air-raid warning had been sounded. Others said they had not heard it; that the alarm was false. But the refugees, those from other parts of China, went quickly to the deep shelters, knowing what air raids could do to a city. The local populace went about its business and continued nonchalantly strolling in the streets. How nervous these “foreigners” were! Air raids? There wasn11 plane to be heard.

But suddenly the airplanes came. They came with a sharp shrill double-toned sound. The refugees on their way to the shelters ran faster. They knew the sound in the skies — bombers. But the Szechwan people stood and stared at the sky. Those planes up there were probably friendly, coming back from a raid on the enemy line. There weren * t any bombs. What was the worry?

Mrs. Fang had been sober ever since the fog had disappeared. She didn’t want to be blown to pieces. Life was too much pleasure for that. She was ready to go to an air-raid shelter any hour of day or night, her money and jewels packed carefully in a little bag which she never left out of her sight.

This afternoon she was examining the contents of her emergency bag, wondering if she could get anything else in it. A bottle of liquor might be a good idea if she felt faint. Lotus Charm was looking at her stamp collection and Phoenix Girl was sewing.

Suddenly they heard the noise overhead, like a giant buzz saw cutting the heavens in two. Lotus Charm sprang up.

Pao Ching came barefooted from the bedroom. “I didn’t hear the warning，” he said. Mrs. Fang was trying to get out of her chair. The little bag was clutched tightly in her hand. Twice she tried to get up, but her legs buckled beneath her. Pao Ching went over to help her, as Lotus Charm went to the window.

The air in the room filled with an eerie ghostlike whistle that rose suddenly to a shrill crescendo and then shut off sharply. <lLie flat, everyone, n Pao Ching ordered. He fell down.

The bombs exploded — three dull thuds. The theater shook. In the room a vase jumped off the table and shattered on the floor. Lotus Charm, her fingers covering her ears, scrambled under the table near the window. From the street outside rose a cloud of dust. Then another explosion, short, sharp, and staccato. The theater shuddered as if a giant fist had hit it, and then they heard the melancholy tinkle of broken glass, as the shattered window panes fell to the ground.

Pao Ching spoke first. “They’ve gone, I think-” But lie lay still. He spoke only to comfort the others. No one answered. He looked around, hardly daring to raise his head. “Phoenix Girl, where are you?" Phoenix Girl was under the bed in the next room. “Mama, where are you?” Mrs. Fang was still sitting in the chair, clutching her bag. There was a pool of water at her feet. She had wet herself.
“It’s all over, dear, ” Pao Ching reassured her. She made no reply. He went over and touched her hand. It was stone cold. He saw she was weeping. He called to Phoenix Girl to come and comfort her mother. She scrambled from under the bed, her clothes and face covered with dust and fluff, tears in her eyes. ’
Pao Ching put on his socks and shoes. He was at the door when Mrs. Fang revived. “Where are you going?” she cried.
*'To the Tangs. I must see if they’re all right.”
“And what about me. I am scared to death, and you think only of looking after other people.”
Pao Ching hesitated for a moment. Then he went downstairs. She was contrary again, so she was all right. His du-

ty was to see if the Tangs were spared. Jeweled Lute was the star of his show, and Little Liu was the only player of the threestringed san-hsien in all of Chungking. His duty was to them. If he went to see them now they might be less inclined to make trouble.

The streets outside were as orderly as ever. He had expected to see them blasted. The bombs had sounded so near. There were panes of broken glass. Here and there firemen and police were rurming，but few people were out. The sun had gone down. Over the roofs of the stores on the opposite side of the street was a great light in the sky, almost like a rainbow. But it was no celestial phenomenon. This was a huge fire. Part of the city was in flame. Pain twisted his heart.

He quickened his pace. The fire was in the part of the city where the Tangs lived. His star and his accompanist. Finally he was stopped by a line of police. He pushed his way through the crowd, using all the strength he had. The whole street was in flame. To his nostrils came the smell of burning flesh. He felt nauseated, and turned away.

Later he climbed the hill and walked in the direction of the Tangs*hotel. Perhaps he could go down one of the side streets and find them. But all he could see was a raging inferno. The streets on the hillside were burning furiously, and a great pall of smoke rolled up toward him. He could hear the crackling of the flames, the shrieking of trapped people, the ominous clanging of fire bells. Here and there new fires burst out like buds in the darkness and swelled into huge tongues of flame. The sky above was a mir-ror of the horror，sometimes yellow, sometimes red, as if God were mocking as man perished in the furnace.

Pao Ching walked home, Kis head bent, Kis heart heavy, in his eyes the horrendous glow of the fire.

The streets were full now, with people leaving the city, every rickshaw overloaded, whole families with their baggage battling to escape. Those who could not get rickshaws were cursing and weeping. Children deserted by their parents were wailing. Some people were even carrying squealing pigs and clucking chickens with them.

A man ran almost head-on into Pao Ching. Instead of apologizing, he cursed, his face livid with rage. '*You people from down river, " he cried, pointing an accusing finger, “you brought the planes with you. You should have stayed where you were — down river.”
Pao Ching was in no mood to argue. The man was wrong. How could the refugees have brought the planes? He stood there thinking, oblivious that the man was still cursing him. Then he walked on, wrapt in his thought. Perhaps he could write a ballad to tell the people what the war was about, why China was figting.

Suddenly he found himself on the ground. A frenzied man running wildly in the street had knocked him down. He got up, and brushed off his clothes. Then he saw he had passed the theater.

Lotus Charm was waiting for him. She looked tiny and forlorn. ^Father, everyone's leaving town,，T she said, *'Why don't we get out too? LetJs go to Uncle Useless Fang in South Warm Springs,

Pao Ching hesitated. Then he said, “How can we go? There isn^t a rickshaw in town, or a litter. And not a hope of getting an automobile. We canH go tonight. We might try tomorrow when the city has quieted down. n
“I’d like to go now，father. I don’t mind being killed, but I am afraid of that noise.

He shook his head. wThe streets alongside the river are all on fire. We can’t pass there — the road is closed by the police. I saw it myself. We could try early tomorrow.”
She looked at him questioningly. Then she said, 4*How were the Tangs?”
“I don’t know.” His jaw trembled. “I couldn’t get to them. Everything was on fire. It was horrible. **
Her dark eyes clouded. She looked at the ceiling. “Father， do you think there’ll be another air raid tomorrow?”
“Who knows*?”
“I would rather nor wait.” She gave a little laugh. ‘Td walk to Uncle F'ang^s rather than wait to have another air raid.

Mrs. Fang was screaming for them. She was still deathly white, although she had been drinking. ** I can^ stay here and die, ” she screeched. “Do something. Think of a way out.”
“We’re going to South Warm Springs in the morning，” Pao Ching said. He was tired and nervous. Seeing her that way hurt him inside. There seemed to be tension everywhere.

None of them slept. The streets were full of people all night. Everyone seemed afraid to go to bed. And rumors flew around like birds of ill omen. With every new one the women would let out heart-rending wails. Four thousand people had been killed. That was official. If four thousand could be killed in such a short time, anything could happen. Every new rumor added a load of doubt and misery to the milling throngs.

At two o'clock Pao Ching gave up trying to sleep. He dressed, and went down to the theater-Kis beloved venture, the scene of his triumph, where actor-manager Pao Qiing had staged such a successful show and built up a regular clientele. But he was numbed by the sight. The banners and testimonial scrolls were still on the walls. They were tributes to his art. The ones he treasured most he had sent to South Warm Springs. And those tables and chairs. The long benches. All he had worked to pay for. What did they mean now? He saw the two hundred new tea sets laid out in orderly rows on the large table. He held his bald pate in his hands. Those teacups were his blocxl and sweat. And he could not take them with him. His family might have to walk all the way to their new home. And there might be another raid. By tomorrow evening, perhaps, the street would be in ashes, and not a single teacup would remain. Could this mean punishment on his good fortune of securing a profitable business while others were facing danger and death every day?

His brow was sweating. Suddenly he tossed up his broad deeply-lined face and laughed. Why worry so long as he had life? What were a few teacups? He walked backstage. Into a blue draw-string bag he put his drum and stringed instrument. The sight of these treasures revived him. So long as he had them he need never be afraid. He could earn his living anywhere.

He found a sheet of red paper and wrote a notice in bold characters： uNo Performance in This Theater for Three Days/' He went to the front of the theater and pasted it in the most conspicuous place. Then he went backstage again. This time he knelt down and prayed. Prayed to the benevolent God and Father of show people the whole world over —“Bless us, oh Great God,

bless us，and surely I will burn more incense for you.

Then he went to wake the family. It was three o'clock. Lotus Charm stirred and half opened her eyes. “An air raid?” she queried. Pao Ching reassured her, and said it was time to start. She sprang from her bed like a little rabbit. Her bag was already packed. It contained two dresses and her stamp collection. Mrs. Fang yawned, and picked up her bag. Phoenix Girl hid behind her mother. She didn't want her father to ask her to carry the drum. “Please，daughter，” he pleaded, a help me out. The stringed instrument is heavy enough by itself.She made a face in resentment, but she put the drum on her back. Pao Ching locked the theater. For a moment he stood surveying the place, sorrow mounting in his heart. Then he turned abruptly and set out with the family.

The city was covered with thin mist. Thousands of people were still in the streets, their faces pale, solemn, scared. Some were plodding slowly, others merely watching. The streets along which Pao Ching and his family walked were still burning. The embers of the blackened buildings showed clearly, here and there a tongue of flame shooting out. They walked amid masses of shattered tiles and charred wood, with everywhere the sickly stale smell of burning. Occasionally they saw a corpse. Here and there a solitary pillar stood out. Once a tall pillar crashed as they passed, and threw up a shower of glowing ashes. They walked faster then, with their hands to their noses to shut out the terrible stench.

Mrs. Fang was too scared even to be temperamental. They couldn't walk too fast for her, although usually she hated hurrying. Suddenly she stopped, screamed and covered her face. She had stepped on a dead baby. Lotus Charm became entangled in a broken electric wire. Pao Ching turned to unloose her, but she broke away in panic, ripping a piece from her dress. Phoenix Girl kept falling down, but she clung resolutely to the drum.

They walked for hours, picking their way through the tortuous ruined streets, clambering over debris and piles of bodies; and finally they reached the riverbank. Then a great fright came upon them. They crumpled down on the wet bank as they looked back at the danger through which they had come. Black ruins and crashing walls. A great pall of smoke, and red tongues of flame leaping to the sky. Vast ruin that was like a huge black dragon with a flaming torch for tongue. Hundreds of dragons like that.

Pao Ching went looking for a ferry. They had to cross the river. He heard a boat whistle, and saw that the steam ferry was working. That was good. Lots of people were paying huge sums to cross the river in rowboats. He would take the steam ferry. The thought of crossing the wide river in a rowboat scared him.

There was hardly any room on the ferry boat. When they reached the other side, he left Mrs. Fang and the two girls in a tea house and set about finding the best way to get to South Warm Springs. The bus terminal was overcrowded. Pao Ching decided that even if he waited a week, the bus would not have taken all who were waiting. He thought of getting a litter. The litter men wanted a small fortune.

Then he spotted a government car. Smiling, he approached the chauffeur. Would he honor him by taking a cup of tea? The chauffeur was delighted. Later, he accepted readily when Pao Ching offered him a handsome bribe to drive them to South Warm Springs. For such a fee he had been waiting; his master, who owned the car, would never be any the wiser.

Lotus Charm was thrilled to ride in a car. It was like some-thing from a storybook.

But Mrs. Fang had a complaint. uIf I had known we were going by car I would have brought more things/1 she grumbled* Pao Ching didn't reply. He was happy. The Gods had been good to him.

As the scenery slipped by, Lotus Charm quickly forgot her tiredness. Everything was new and beautiful. And South Warm Springs was fascinating, with its tiny streets, the great green hills stretching out behind. There was-much to see： a rippling brook, pine trees, and the sun — so kindly and restful, different from the Chung king sun. And the dark purple shadows on the hills, and wide green patches. She had never seen anything more beautiful.

Useless Fang greeted them with tears in his eyes. He thought they had all been killed. His face was sallow and lined, his eyes bloodshot.
“You look as if you had been up all night，” said Pao Ching. “My dear brother, why don’t you rest?”
i(How could I sleep with all this anxiety?，( protested Useless Fang. He laid his arm on Lotus Charm's shoulders and spoke with the enthusiasm of a boy, “Go to sleep now，my child, and sleep well. Tomorrow when you wake up, go out and take a bath in the hot springs. They are wonderful. " He looked at them all, resting his eyes fondly on each. “And you’re all alive. Wonderful! Wonderful! And youll take the baths. Good! Wonderful! ^ When he was happy he never knew what to say first. He just talked and talked. “And you，my dear brother，” he told Pao Ching, “you must go to sleep.”
Pao Ching looked insulted. “Not yet. I have business to attend to.
“Business?” Useless Fang looked at his younger brother as if he were mad. “What have you to do here in this place of beauty?”
Pao Ching handed Useless Fang his precious ihree-stringed insirumtnt.       going to walk round town to see if there's any chance of singing here，” he said，and strode buoyantly away.

10 qj- he second night they were at South Warm Springs the Jap ^ planes bombed Chungking again. The Fangs joined the villagers listening in the streets.

Pao Ching could not sleep that night. What had happened to his theater? Had it been hit? Was everything he had, lost forever?

He was out early before the family were up, on his way back to Chungking by bus. He had to see what had happened to the theater. He also wanted to know the fate of the Tangs. If he started a show in South Warm Springs he could use Jeweled Lute and Little Liu.

The bus was almost empty. Everyone was going the other way, quitting the city. The people hurrying away from Chungking looked at him as if he were crazy. He held his head high and smiled, and saw himself a hero.

It was midday when he arrived. Overhead the sun hung in the sky like a burning brazier. New rows of buildings had been destroyed, and there were fresh piles of unburied bodies. The streets were empty, the pavements blacked, waterlogged and bloodstained. And overhead the sun roasted everything. He felt as if he were walking in hell. He had never been so hot in the city, and he had never smelled such odors. He wanted to go back. How foolish to leave South Warm Springs. And what was he here for?

I’m the only one alive in this hell, he thought as he walked. From the blackened frame of a house a small cat mewed. Pao Ching went over and stroked the furry little thing. The animal responded gratefully. He would have liked to take it with him, but what could he do with it ? Poor Little creature. What sights had it seen, and what was its future? A cookpot, perhaps, for when people were hungry — Pao Ching shuddered and walked on.

In a back street he saw three dogs gnawing at what he thought was food. Perhaps he could take some back to the little cat. But he stopped short as he realized what the dogs were chewing. They were growling ferociously, their jaws tearing at a corpse. Sick at heart he turned and ran.

Again there was that awful stench of burning flesh. He wanted to vomit, but his stomach merely quivered. He turned around, away from the smell, only to have a worse smell assail him. He looked at the houses, as if wanting to go in one to take shelter. They were mere shells ~ the walls standing, with hollow windows — and behind them fires still burning. And he could not tell where he was. A sudden panic struck him. He was lost in a desolate smoking helL Finally he reached the main street. The crossroad there was bare and flat. And in the middle stood a traffic policeman with no traffic to direct. When he saw Pao Ching he saluted him, obviously thinking him an important person. Pao Ching smiled and nodded, and went on his way. The policeman had been as pleased to see him as he was to see the policeman. A live man in this world of the dead was indeed a welcome sight.

Pao Ching walked faster. He dared not stop to look for fear of what he might see. A corpse was a corpse, but a burnt corpse was worse, and hundreds of them were too much. Even to look at the shattered buildings made him shudder. And he had the illusion that it was not right to be whole, alive amid all this destruction. His guilt oppressed him suddenly. He had come to this city of the dead to look after his property and think of his career. And all these people were slaughtered.

But he consoled himself. I work hard to support my family. I created this theater 一 quite natural that I should want to see what has happened to it. And the hope that the theater had been spared was high in his heart like a bright banner. I made it with blood and sweat, he kept telling himself as he hurried. Perhaps it hadn’t been hit after all.

At the corner of the street leading to the theater he came to an involuntary halt. Strength drained from him. The familiar stores were all burned down. There was a pile of smoking lumber in the middle of the street. Of one store all that remained was a door post. And hanging from the post was the brass sign, still bright, still golden, reflecting the sunshine. Was it a good omen? He dared not look at his theater. He stood like a man bewitched. The theater was somewhere behind him. He had only to turn his head to look, but he had no strength. His brow was deeply furrowed. Rivulets of perspiration ran down his nose. How foolish to come all this way, and turn back without seeing what he had come to see.

With a great effort he turned around. The theater was still standing. His heart leaped to his throat. He wanted to cry out, but he had lost his voice. He started to walk, then burst into a run, and soon he was standing at the gate he had locked. The walls were standing, but there was an air of desolation about the place. The playbills with their gold letters on red paper had fallen down. The one nearest read：FANG LOTUS CHARM. Tenderly he picked up the playbill and rolled it under his arm.

The lock on the gate was still intact, but the hasp itself was shattered. He walked through and opened the door. From inside, a wave of damp air came out to meet him. Although he had turned off the lights the theater seemed to be brightly lit. And then he saw why. The roof had been blown off. Broken tiles and rafters lay all over the floor. His precious tea sets were in a thousand pieces. The few banners and scrolls he had left on the wall looked like tom pieces of faded wallpaper.

Slowly he walked through the sorry debris. He wanted to get down on his knees and piece together the broken china- But what was the use? He sat down on a small chair mournfully- After a while he raised his face and whispered to himself, ^All right, all right. " His theater might be damaged, but he was still alive.

He went outside and nailed shut the door, using a broken tile as a hammer. The sound of the hammering was a tonic. He was doing something again. Work was good medicine. His mind was saying： uWith a new roof, some new tea sets, the best that money can buy, we can start again. The chairs and tables are not broken. M He looked at the sorry ruins across the street. He had been lucky. But even those shops could be rebuilt. When the foggy season returned, they would be open again and business would be good.

He had gone a little way toward the bus station when he remembered that he still had some things of value in the theater. He ought to go back and look them over. Some he might take with him to South Warm Springs. But he laughed at himself. Doing that would be like putting tiny seeds through a sieve. The more you put in, the more you had to pick up. He walked on.

He was feeling better. He knew what he had lost. Now he could take an objective view of the bombed city. Perhaps he could write a ballad entitled u Chungking, the city that could not be killed.That would be topical and should be a great success.

He walked to the area where the Tangs lived, hardly aware he was going that way. Their hotel was still standing because it was built behind a huge wall that had stopped the fire. The wall kept light out of the rooms, but it had saved the hotel. All the other buildings were burned. The hotel looked like the only intact button on a ruined dress.

And the Tangs were safe. Fourth Master Tang greeted him with tears in his eyes. “My old friend，we thought you were dead/' he whimpered.

Mrs. Tang had lost weight. The flesh hung in gray wattles on her pale face. But she had not changed her temperament. “Why didn’t you come to see us?” she grumbled. “We were here all alone. We might have been dead.”
“But I’m here now, ” said Pao Ching. “I couldn’t come any sooner. I couldn’t walk through fire.”
Jeweled Lute came out of the bedroom. She looked pale and 338 ill, her hair falling over her face, purple rings under her eyes. “Don’t take any notice of mother’s nonsense，” she said to Pao Ching. “Get us out of here.”
“My nonsense, indeed, ” snapped Mrs. Tang, and she kept on repeating her first question — why hadn’t Pao Ching come to see them?

Pao Ching asked for Little Liu. When no one answered, he wondered if the accompanist had been killed. He looked from one to the other, the unspoken question in his eyes.

Finally Fourth Master Tang said, “That lazy fool- He wouldn’t go to the air-raid shelter. He stayed in bed till the bombs started to fall ...” then he ran,
<4Such a noise they made, interrupted Mrs. Taug. “Bombs scream like devils as they fall. ^
Pao Ching's eyes were wide with horror. Poor Little Liu, his brother before Heaven, his precious accompanist.
“Yes，he ran with the bombs falling，” continued Fourth Master Tang, **and fell downstairs. He missed a step, and hit his head. Now he's got a bruise like an apple on his forehead, the stupid loafer.”
“Where is he?” asked Pao Ching, relieved.
“In bed as usual, ” squeaked Mrs. Tang, “He’s always in bed .”
Then Pao Ching told them that he might set up a new troupe in South Warm Springs. H explained the town was small, that it would only be a bare living, and that the local people thought themselves dignitaries and would want free tickets, but that could be got round somehow. He was sure the two families could make enough to eat. In the foggy season they coaid come back to Chungking. He had already planned the program. Just three numbers： Jeweled Lute, Lotus Charm, and himself.

Mrs. Tang was about to make a complaint. So Pao Ching said quickly, 4<Let me tell you the worst. It’s all a gamble. We may not be able to earn three meals a day. Don’t blame me if it doesn’t work out. Perhaps I shouldn’t ask you to come under such circumstances.”
Fourth Master Tang spoke up before his wife could catch her breath. “You are our lucky star，dear brother. Whatever you say, goes.”
Mrs. Tang said, “I don’t mind where I sleep. I’d rather lie in a pig pen than stay here.

As it turned out, South Warm Springs was too small to support a full-fledged theatrical group. But Pao Ching made up his mind that while the war continued they would spend the summer in this little town, and go back to Chungking in the winter to make money. He already had plans for rebuilding and improving his theater.

The Tangs were grateful to him for bringing them to the village —but only for a short time. Then they all began to grumble： the town was tcx> small for them; they did not like the tea house where Jeweled Lute sang; the money she earned was too little; their room was a pig pen. And it was all Pao Ching's fault, they were never tired of reminding him.

Finally Pao Ching concluded he had seen enough of the Tang family. His tolerance and good nature were exhausted.

His main worry concerned Lx>tus Charm. Often he asked her if she wanted to move, if she was happy. He asked her so many times that she became anxious. One day when he put the same question to her, she turned on him and asked, uWhy do you keep asking me this? What is wrong?”
“Well, it’s like this，” he ventured. “You and I don’t come from theatrical families. Sometimes I wonder if we should get out of show business. Perhaps we are not suited to it, after all. M Lotus Charm regarded him round-eyed. “Don’t you want to be a singer any more?”
a〇h yes, I like to sing myself. I mean ...M He paused in confusion. “Well, since we are singers, perhaps we can’t help acting like other singers. Taking on their bad habits, I mean."
Lotus Charm ignored his confusion. “I like this place and I’d like to stay here always，” she said. ** I like staying in beautiful places- It^ much better than always moving about. ^ She extended her slim rounded arm. <lLook at that lovely hill. So permanent it is, so green, and so beautiful. If we could only be like that.” Pao Ching smiled. He liked to hear Lotus Charm talk. When she said things such as this, it was as if she had opened a window on her mind. Now he knew she was not the sort that liked to drift round the country. She had no showpeople^ blood in her.
“Sweet thing，” he whispered to himself. And his mind went on to the future：he would save for her; he would open a theatrical school to perpetuate his name; he would train a generation of show people. Never would he or Lotus Charm slip into the bad habits of the profession.


qj- he enemy planes had not been over Chungking for a week.

Many refugees were going back to the capital. They could find nowhere to live in South Warm Springs and other villages, and food was scarce. Chungking was home to them. Was it not better to go back and take the chance of being killed by a bomb than to stay in this village and starve to death?

Pao Ching decided to stay on. He made his decision after careful deliberation. The rebuilding of his precious theater was the deciding factor. The laborers in the city were all occupied building air-raid shelters and repairing government offices. However much he would be willing to pay, neither he nor the owner of the theater would be able to hire any workmen. Then again, he feared the air raids might be resumed. It required only an occasional raid; and there would be no business for a theater. Better to make shift in this little town, even if the take was low. He had only his own family and the Tangs to consider; surely he could manage to support them all.

South Warm Springs, surrounded by its green hills, should have been a haven of peace, but Pao Ching found that there was as much to worry about in a small town as in a large city. This community was so small and compact that everyone knew each other, and most of the people had nothing better to do than to gossip.

342 Whenever Lotus Charm went out the villagers stared at her and passed remarks. But there was rarely criticism because Lotus Charm and Phoenix Girl, who usually went bathing together, always dressed modestly and behaved with scrupulous good taste. They were novelties to the people of South Warm Springs, and so they attracted attention. But when Jeweled Lute went out with them, the older folk would hiss and whistle, and the young men would follow them passing offensive remarks.

Pao Ching worried about this. He knew his own daughters were safe when they walked by themselves, but when they appeared with Jeweled Lute the whole town took them for street walkers.

Lotus Charm came back from one outing flushed and angry. uWhy do they torment me when I go out with her?" she demanded. “What’s the difference? She’s a girl like me.”
Pao Ching didn’t want to be blunt. “Go out with her as little as you can.”
“But she asks me — she always wants to go out.”
“Then don’t go，” he answered and walked away. Why couldn’t he tell her about Jeweled Lute? He wanted to explain the difference between the Fangs and the Tang family, but it all concerned Jeweled Lute's relations with men, and he found this impossible to discuss. He was afraid. He might say the wrong thing and stimulate Lotus Charm's curiosity; she might go out and experiment herself, and get into trouble.

Lotus Charm was puzzled and irritated by her father's reticence .She was half afraid of Jeweled Lute, but at the same time she wanted to find out why the girl was different, why she attracted so much attention in the streets.

One day she and Jeweled Lute were strolling beside a tiny brook which ran through the town. They had reached the outskirts of South Warm Springs where the brook became wider. A-head were great masses of hills, down which little streams plunged in feathery white cascades. And between them and the hills were green forests, in bright contrast with the clear sky. The scene looked more like a painting than a real landscape. Lotus Charm was entranced. With little cries of joy she walked faster, as if she wanted to run to the foot of the distant hills.

Suddenly they came upon a man sitting on a large rock beside the stream. Jeweled Lute went over to him and greeted him warmly. Lotus Charm stopped, wondering what to do. Obviously Jeweled Lute had an appointment. Lotus Charm did not want to walk on alone, so she sat on the riverbank a little distance from where they were talking, and watched the fish darting to and fro in the clear water. She felt embarrassed. But how interesting the fish were. Some were little more than an inch long, with eyes like pearls. She was fascinated.

Presently she was aware that Jeweled Lute was at her elbow.

Lotus Charm,she said with a slight snicker, “how would you like to go with this man? He is a nice fellow, and rich. He wants you, and he’ll give you anything you ask.”
Lotus Charm got up as if she had been stabbed. She did not know why, but deep inside her rose the feeling that she was being insulted. She blushed, and then turned white. She wanted to talk but there were no words. She held her head high, resting her eyes on the lovely green hills, but fascinated, they went back to Jeweled Lute.

Then she turned and ran. After a while she slowed her pace down to a walk, her little braids flapping on each side of her neck. Impatiently she grabbed them and held them, kept walking, not looking back, not hesitating till she reached the hotel.

She went straight to bed. There she lay half awake pondering the incident. Why had Jeweled Lute asked her to go with that man? What was love, that it could earn a girl money? Recently in South Warm Springs she had seen young men and girls, walking in the countryside very close together, sitting on the grass holding hands. That seemed all right. She admired them, but to her they were people from a different world. They were entitled to such freedom. She was a mere entertainer, they were respectable students. The men students, she decided, would never ask her to walk with them because she was not a student. But what about this man Jeweled Lute had wanted her to go with?

What exactly did the man want? What would he pay for? She supposed he wanted to touch her as the man in Chungking had touched Jeweled Lute. One thing was quite clear to her： she was a humble person. She had better recognize that and be resigned. She was like a chair or a table, which could be bought and sold.

She remembered how her mother said sometimes after she had a drink, “You can do as you like，but one day I’ll sell you to some rich man. ^ Why did her mother want to sell her? Did Mrs. Fang want to sell her because she didn't earn enough money for the family? Perhaps it was because Mrs. Fang was not her real mother. Real parents wouldnH sell their daughter. But where were her parents? How had the Fangs bought her? She began to weep softly.

She did not want to tell Pao Ching what had happened. But perhaps it would be best to ask him outright if he was going to sell her. He had said so many times that he wanted to find her a good husband. Was there a difference between finding a husband and selling her? Something her mother said so often flamed in her mind like a sign in electric bulbs： "*You little bitch. You're not worth a cent apart from your bottom.” And that was what a girl gave away whether she was married or sold.

For days she brooded. Her face changed. Furrows appeared on her young brow. Pao Ching noticed something was wrong, but whenever he asked her she gave him a bright short smile, and said she was quite well.

She had decided she could not tell him her troubles. He was her father, and he would not understand. Her unhappiness was her own. From now on, she must be grown-up and independent. She would tell her father nothing more. She stood up and walked over to the mirror. She was growing. She smiled as she raised herself on the balls of her feet. Yes, she was a woman now, and she must understand the relations between man and woman, even if she had to find out for herslf.

Pao Ching was so worried over the change in Lotus Charm that he told his troubles to his wife, who had been sober for several days. M〇f course, M she commented. “Didn’t you know, a girl changes all the time.”
“But she’s so different; as if she has all the troubles in the world.”
Mrs- Fang made a £ace as if she didn’t want to talk about the subject any more, but he went on. wish you would show her a little kindness，and help her.”

^And when am I not kind to her?*' snapped Mrs. Fang.

Pao Ching left her then. He did not want to start a row, and his wife never remembered all the unpleasant things she said to Lotus Charm when she was drunk.

One day Mrs. Fang came rolling in to talk to Pao Ching. 'lYou know what I think?** she cried. u Lotus Charm wants a man. She’s grown-up now, and when a girl gets that way anything can happen to her, unless she gets a man. She needs one badly — I know, I was a girl once.”
Pao Ching looked shocked. “I tell you she’s only fifteen，” he said，and he made himself smile. “And she’s not a bad girl. She doesn’t know anything.”
Mrs. Fang p>ointed her finger at her husband's nose. “Silly， if we want to make some money for our old age, we should sell her to a rich man. We could get at least ten thousand dollars. If you don t want to do that, then let her stay here and earn money singing, but get her a man or there will be trouble.Pao Ching was disgusted. He walked out.

A few days later Pao Ching had a visitor, a tall handsome man in smartly cut civilian clothes. He introduced himself as Sergeant Tao. There was a pistol in his belt. He bowed courteously, and said he had business with Pao Ching.

They went to a tea house to talk, Pao Ching wondering what the young man wanted and feeling inwardly that this business might be distasteful.

Sergeant Tao sipped his tea and smiled. “I am a northerner like you，” he said, (<so we are brothers-His smile was bland. Pao Ching replied by ordering some food, his way of showing courtesy to a fellow northerner. Over the dishes they talked of their homeland. All the time Pao Ching was wondering what the sergeant had at the back of his mind.

Finally the bland smile on Sergeant Tao's face faded a trifle. His big black eyes fixed Pao Ching. His mouth spread in a little grin of triumph. “Big Boss Fang，” he announced, “I work for Commander Wang.”
Pao Ching showed no sign of the perturbation that was inside him. Without raising an eyelid he asked casually> uWhich Commander Wang? There are so many.

The sergeant looked unhappy. Obviously he thought everyone knew his lord and master. uHe was a commander about twenty years back, v he explained. “Now he，s the big man in this town. He lives in a mansion over there. M His hand pointed to the hills. “It’s a magnificent place. You should walk out and see it.”
“Indeed I will.”
Sergeant Tao smiled. *'The commander heard you sing the other night.”
“Really，I am sorry I did not recognize him and pay him my personal compliments. But I am a stranger here, and my eyesight is not good,”
“He’s very informal. He likes to go out without any ceremo-ny. The richer he gets the more informal he is. He's that kind of man.?，The sergeant put his elbow on the table, and he thrust his plump sleek face over to Pao Ching. uBig Boss Fang, ^ he whispered, “the commander likes your Lotus Charnu ”
Pao Ching’s smile froze for a second’ as Sergeant Tao continued. “He sent me here to discuss terms with you.”
Pao Ching coughed. The sergeant took that as a sign that he was going to hold out for a good price. “He has money, and he likes to spend it. He^l take care of you, and her. He^ a kind-hearted man. Make no mistake about that.”
Pao Ching’s face became a shade paler, but he contrived a smile. “My dear sergeant，” he said casually, but with a hint of authority, “don’t you know that it is illegal to buy and sell human beings these days?”
“Who wants to buy her? Commander Wang wants to marry her. He'll treat you right, of course. If you want a house, some property or a loan that doesn’t have to be paid back，he’ll see that you get it. But it will be a proper marriage. No buying or selling —a marriage to a distinguished person.”
Pao Ching made it obvious that he was unimpressed. With a vestige of a smile he remarked, uDid you say he was a commander twenty years ago?”
“Sure I did. He's only fifty-five now, very healthy, and strong as a lion.
“Just about fifteen years older than I am.” Pao Ching’s tone was sarcastic.

The sergeant laughed confidently. “If people only knew what love and care an older man can give to a girl. Don^ you realize that, my fellow northerner? It’s good for both of them.”
**How many concubines does he have?^ inquired Pao Ching.

u〇nly five. And he always gives most attention to the latest and youngest.

Pao Ching reddened then. He was furious. With an effort he managed to control himself. He had traveled widely, meeting all kinds of people, and had learned to keep calm. He sipped his tea, aware that his hand was shaking.
“My dear fellow northerner, ” he said in a benign authorita-

tive voice, “you are making a mistake. I am not a typical entertainer, and I don’t do what other show people do. Lotus Charm has been making money for the family many years now. I treat her as my own child, to reply her and my own conscience. I don’t want to make money out of her in the way you suggest. Now you are an intelligent fellow, and a northerner like myself, so you should understand. Please make that clear to your commander."
Sergeant Tao’s face was set rigid. His mouth snapped as he said, “But Mrs. Fang said she agreed. She also quoted me a price.”
“Really，and when did you discuss this with her?”
“Yesterday. I called when you were out.M
“Was she drunk?”
“I wouldn’t say that about any lady.”
“Then be assured that whatever she told yout was when she was in her cups. Drunken words have no value."
Pao Ching spoke sternly. He stared thoughtfully into space. The sergeant interrupted. MDrunken words or no drunken words, what shall I tell the commander?M
“I suggest，my dear fellow northerner, that you give me time to discuss the matter with my wife. One day or so. Then I shall give you a formal reply. ** Pao Ching bowed. ** May I engage a litter for you.
“Thanks，no. My own is waiting. G^mmander Wang treats me right. ^
Pao Ching gripped the sergeant's limp fat hand. “My dear fellow northerner, ^ he murmured courteously, and forgot what he had intended to say.

Sergeant Tao bowed and stood up. ‘‘I’ll see you tomorrow and be sure I won’t make trouble for you. I have to do my duty.”
“That，I understand. A soldier has his duty.”
The sergeant lowered his voice. uPlease remember, Commander Wang has power, so be careful. I don't want to scare you, but after all, we are fellow countrymen, so I should tell you certain things.”
** Thank you, fellow countryman, your kindness is deeply appreciated.

After Sergeant Tao had gone Pao Ching sat down at the table again, lost in thought. His first impulse was to go home and give Mrs. Fang a severe beating. She deserved it. But what good would come of that? It would only make her worse. He got up, and walked out of town along the brook. He walked fast, his eyes down, his hand clasped tightly behind him. Losing one’s temper was no good. A man lost face when he quarreled with his wife.

For half an hour he walked. Here was serious trouble. This Commander Wang was the big man of the district. He was powerful. If he didn't get Lotus Charm, he might take vengeance on the family. Pao Ching shuddered. He was at the mercy of a tyrant. Wang had only to dispatch one of his hired killers and then he would no longer be alive to protect his family.

He turned back. At the hotel door, he made his decision. He went to find Useless Fang, sitting in the yard contemplating the sky. They both went to the bank of the stream and sat under a weeping willow tree.


seless Fang listened to Pao Ching’s story without a word.

When Pao Ching had finished, he stood up and started to walk away.
“Where are you going，elder brother?” asked Pao Ching， pulling on his brother's sleeve. Useless Fang turned and looked at him. His eyes were hard and resolute, his lips trembling. He spoke finally.

MThis is my affair. Small and trivial things I do not worry about. You are incapable of handling big matters, but I can. I am going to see this Commander Wang, and tell him what I think of people like him. He needs to be told that we are living in the Republic of China, that the day is past when human beings can be sold like slaves.” Useless Fang snapped his fingers. UA commander, he calls himself. Bah! Commanders are a dime a dozenHe paused and his thin face reddened. “To think of selling a lovely young girl like Lotus Charm to an old man past fifty. How repulsive! v Pao Ching laid his hand on his brother's shoulder. “Please lower your voice, ” he urged. “Someone might hear — a friend of Wang. Let us sit down again and discuss the matter quietly.”
Useless Fang sat down. uShe has made so much money for us all，” he protested. **We must not sell her. No, no! ”
“I haven’t said I want to do such a thing，” countered Pao Ching. “I merely told you the facts.”
Useless Fang did not seem to have heard. wGo ahead. Talk. Say all you want. I cannot beat your wife, but as your elder brother I have the right to beat you. Think twice before you agree with that wife of yours."
uDo you think I would even discuss the matter with you if I agreed with her?” Pao Ching was indignant. “I am determined not to give in.”
“That’s fine. You speak like my real brother and I am proud of you. We must remember our parents were worthy and we must follow their example. It is no disgrace for you to earn your living as an entertainer, but we should not be men if we agreed to sell a human being like a slave.”
For a while both were silent, brooding. Presently Pao Ching spoke his fears. “Elder brother，” he said, “do you realize that even if we went back to Chungking, we would not be out of reach of that man Wang. Fifteen miles is nothing in these days of the motor car. ’，
“How do you know he has a car?”
“I don’t，but he is a war lord. If we go back to Chungking, he might order the local gangsters and thugs to make things unpleasant for us. Of course the national government is there, ]?ut they cannot bother to suppress the local war lords, so they have settled with them, and that means this Wang can do as he pleases. We shall get no protection.”
“So you are going to give him Lotus Charm?” Useless Fang’s eyes were full of reproach.
“No，I am not，” answered Pao Ching. “But I want to point out that we can neither run away from him nor offend him. We must compromise.”
“How can you compromise with a man like that?”
“I have a plan. I shall make a personal visit to pay my respects to him. I may take Lotus Charm along and she will kowtow to him, to show our respect. If he is a man of intelligence he will understand, and perhaps he will give us his blessing and protection. If he gets unpleasant, then I will be unpleasant. If he wants to fight, then I will fight. What do you think of that, elder brother?"
Useless Fang scratched his head. It sounded better to him that Pao Ching should fight than himself, but he was doubtful of his brother’s logic. “Tell me，” he asked dimly, “on what pretext will you make this visit to kowtow?”
“You know our professional motto. One is polite before one becomes a realist. In my work I have to put out my hand for a living. I am not ashamed to kowtow when it is necessary. After all，in our profession we kowtow to the Gods and to the prince of hell. So why not to a war lord?n He smiled reminiscently. ^Remember that time in Tsingtao when the Governor’s concubine took a liking to me. She wanted me to come and sing in her private quarters. If I had done that I would have lost my head. So what did I do? I kowtowed to the sergeant who brought her message. He was flattered and impressed. And he listened to my story with an open heart. I told him that I lived from hand to mouth, that my entire family depended on me for a living, and that I could not afford to keep the engagement. He believed me， and his heart was touched, so he let me go a free man. No, I am not ashamed to kowtow when it is a means to an end. This all may bring good luck to us. But, if the moment arrives when my kowtowing is wasted, then I can use my hand. I can fight with the rest, fight to the end of my life.”
“But why not go alone? Why take Lotus Charm with you?” “I want to take her along to show them that she is still a child, not developed yet into a woman — too young to be a good concubine.”
“But old men like young and innocent girls. Experienced women make too many demands.”
Pao Ching didn’t answer that.
“I shall come with you then, ” said Useless Fang, but without enthusiasm.

There is no need. You can stay at home and look after your sister-in-law.”
“Look after her! ”
**She has to be looked after, elder brother. n Early next morning after Lotus Charm and Pao Ching had left for the Wang mansion with Sergeant Tao, Useless Fang began his task of leaking after his sister-in-law. uSo,he accused in a grim sarcastic voice, **so it is not enough that you make this innocent child a public entertainer, but now you want to sell her body. Where is your heart, if you have one?”
Mrs. Fang wanted a drink before she answered. But Useless Fang saw her stretch out her hand for the bottle, and reached for it himself. He threw it on the floor where it broke into pieces. Mrs. Fang was shocked. She stood like a statue, her dilated eyes fixed on Useless Fang. She tried to speak, but couldn’t. Then she recovered herself. “I brought the child up with my own hands, as if she were my own. Tve no grudge against her. But I know girl singers. We should have got rid of her early and made ourselves a little money, and vshe would be happy with some man. She needs a man. If we’d done that — all of us would be happy. You say I'm wrong. Well — from now on, I wash my hands of it all. ril have nothing to do with the girl. Fresh water doesn’t mix with salt，and that’s to the good.”
She wagged one flabby finger at Useless Fang.
“But you’ll be sorry. You and my husband are spoiling her. If she doesnJt give you trouble, just come and dig out my eyes. I know life. Her destiny under the stars is to be an entertainer, and a prostitute. And she’ll always be that — a lowly slut. You think I am heartless. Well, let me tell you my heart is made the same way as yours, but my eyes are sharper. I know this girl can’t get away from her stars — no other girl entertainer ever did. That’s all I have to say. From now on I shut up.”
Useless Fang became conciliatory. “If we have patience we can teach her，” he said. “She learns her songs quickly. So she can learn other things too.”
**No one can change a person's destiny that is ruled by the stars，” said Mrs. Fang stolidly. “Have you ever noticed how she walks — wagging her hips to attract men. She doesn’t know it, perhaps, but it comes out — her profession.”
“That is a stage habit, and she learned it as a child. She does not do it intentionally. I am sure of that.”
Mrs. Fang smiled. “Let’s have a drink, ” she proposed. “A drink makes you forget everything. Why worry about other when you can drink.” But she was taking to herself. Useless Fang had walked out.

Pao Ching, Lotus Charm, and Sergeant Tao were on their way, in litters provided by Commander Wang. Lotus Charm was deep in thought. She felt she was going into danger, but she did not know exactly what she was facing. This journey had a solemn portent, she was sure. She felt as if she were enduring the horrors of an air raid. You heard the bombs shriek, and you never knew where they struck. You saw people lying dead, but you never saw them die. And there was doubt and weariness. She was tired now, and she felt shrunken like a withered-up bean. And then realism would come. She would move her legs and she felt old and mature. Her body seemed to have swelled into a strange and unfamiliar ripeness, and little pulses she had not noticed before began to beat in strange places of her body. And in her heart the words came that someone wanted her for a concubine. A concubine ...a grown woman.

Perhaps it wasn’t so bad after all- Then she corrected herself. To be a concubine was a lowly occupation. It meant losing face, being an old man’s plaything. But really it meant being only one of a few little wives. She was little, after all- And she would have to sleep with a man over fifty. How little she was, and how big he must be. So big he would hurt her. She could already feel his hands on her secret parts, and surely he would have rough whiskers which would tear her flesh. The more she thought of it, the more terrified she became. Perhaps she could kill herself before this dreadful thing happened.

And would she be able to keep on collecting stamps? She wanted a ten-cent Hong-Kong stamp so badly. Perhaps old Wang would get her one?

Ahead was a mighty forest, tall trees close together blocking out the view. There was the house, the great mansion to which she was being delivered like a chicken for sale. And there lived the old man with the lusting eyes, the coarse beard. If she could only fly away like a bird. Rut she was helpless. Her heart was weeping although her eyes were dry.

The litter seemed to have slowed up. She wanted it to go faster. The sooner all this was over, the better. Resolutely she fought back her tears. She did not want her father to see her weeping.

Pao Ching had given her instructions how to dress — to look like a little girl. She wore an old plain blue gown without trimming, old satin slippers, and no ribbons on her braids. Blue string instead. She had put on no make-up. She looked at herself in the mirror in her pocketbook. Her mouth was thin and pinched; and she looked plain and ordinary. Why did men want her? She was so little and ordinary. Her mother must be right. ^Only that bottom of yours ks worth anything.She blushed at the thought, and jabbed the mirror back in her pocketbook.

The litter stopped suddenly. They were in a clearing in front of a huge mansion. Lotus Charm stepped out quickly. For an instant she stopped to look at the sky. Somewhere a bird was singing and the trees were a delicious green. The cool air caressed her face. Everything was so beautiful, and yet she was going into a hideous gray nightmare — to be sold to an old man.

She looked at her father's pallid face. He had changed. She sensed how nervous he was, but she noticed that his thick eyebrows were up. That meant he was going to fight. Whenever her father's eyebrows were up like that , she knew he was determined to win. She felt cheered.

They walked through a vast garden, past an artificial miniature mountain topped by a tiny pavilion. There were beautifully kept lawns and great banks of flowers. Butterflies hovered over the borders, some of which were filled with tall red flowers, others crowded with pure white blossoms. And she smelt the perfume of the garden in the soft wind. Although she loved flowers she did not want to look at these. Flowers and torture did not go well together. And sometimes when she came to a flower bed more beautiful than the others, her heart stood still. The flowers were mocking her. The red flowers especially. They reminded her of blood. She moved closer to her father for protection. Her fists were tight white balls, her fingers so taut that they felt as if they would crack any moment.

The sergeant conducted them to an ornate sitting room. Neither of them sat down. They were too tense. Pao Ching had a set smile on his face, under his lifted eyebrows. A muscle was twitching on the side of his face, and he held himself stiff and erect. Lotus Charm stood at his side，her head lowered, her upper teeth biting her lower lip, which had begun to tremble.

The minutes dragged. They seemed to be waiting interminably. Pao Ching wanted to scratch his head, but he didn,t like to, in case the war lord arrived unexpectedly and caught him at a disadvantage. In his mind he was going over the things he intended to say. His plan was to kneel the moment Commander Wang made an appearance, and then go right into his story. He knew it all by heart.

There was a noise outside — a rustle. Lotus Charm gave a little cry and moved closer to her father.
“Ssh，” he cautioned. “Don’t be afraid.” The muscle on his face was twitching faster.

Sergeant Tao entered. With him came no dashing Comman-

der Wang, but an old Chinese lady in a black silk dress, leaning on his arm. In her hand she carried a water pipe. Pao Ching took quick notice of the shrunken face, the large mouth and flat head. A typical Szechwan woman.

Sergeant Tao said briefly, “Madame Commander — Boss Fang.” Pao Ching was momentarily at a loss. He had expected to meet a man, and here was a woman. Everything he had planned in his mind vanished. Madame Commander looked with great care at I^otus Charm. She put a light to her pipe and smoked noisily.

Now what, Pao Ching asked himself desperately. He could not kowtow to a woman, however high her position, not even to save Lotus Charm. A thought came. He tugged at Lotus Charm's sleeve. She knew the signal. Slowly she went down on her knees before the old woman — and kowtowed.

Madame Commander gave three loud puffs at the pipe. Three times she threw the ashes on the ground in front of Lotus Charm. Lotus Charm kept her head bowed. She saw the ashes on the ground through windows of her tears.

Pao Ching watched and wondered. How could he begin? He saw the old lady rubbing the bowl of her pipe with her hand. Just then Lotus Charm sobbed.

Madame Commander looked coldly at Pao Ching, her small black eyes boring into his. “What’s the matter?” she asked in Szechwan dialect. “What goes on here?”
Pao Ching couldn’t answer. Sergeant Tao was wagging his head slowly, an expression of disgust on his face.
“I spoke, ” said Madame Commander，“but no one answers. I said, what goes on? I say now, how does it happen that such a little girl wants to be a concubine? Tell me! ” She frowned at Pao Ching; and his face went crimson.

Finally he found his tongue. "Commander Wang wants — ” She cut him short with a shrill demand. “Commander Wang wants what?” She paused，her mouth pursed，and then cracked out like a whip, ‘‘If you hadn’t tempted him，the commander wouldn’t have given her a second thought.”
Lotus Charm sprang up. She turned her tear-stained face up to the old woman, and shrieked, “I tempt him. I ... never.” w Lotus Charm,commanded Pao Ching sharply, uremember your manners.”
But to his surprise Madame Commander was laughing. uCommander Wang is a good man. M She looked across at Sergeant Tao. “Yes, sergeant.” 丁he sergeant grinned.
“And we are good people too，madame, ” asserted Pao Ching politely.

Madame Commander contemplated her water pipe. She accepted a lighter from the sergeant and lit the noisy bubbling thing. She spoke to Pao Ching, “Well spoken. And remember， no one can look down on you if you do not humble yourself. M Then in a loud voice she said, ** Sergeant Tao, take them both home.” Her pipe was out again. She kindled her lighter and put it to the tobacco.

She seemed to have forgotten them. Fao Ching was overwhelmed. This woman had a heart. She was understanding. She was a great person, but she seemed to have withdrawn herself.

Sergeant Tao broke the silence. ‘‘Madame Commander, ” he said, “they want to thank you .” By way of answer Madame Commander made a circle in the air with her glowing pipe lighter —a signal they were to leave, that she did not want to be thanked.

Pao Ching bowed low from the waist, and Lotus Charm did likewise.

And then they were outside in the garden. This time it seemed as if they were in Heaven. This was freedom under the clear sky. The flowers were lovelier than ever, a vast pattern of festival color. Lotus Charm wanted to dance and to sing. When a small yellow butterfly fluttered past her face, she cried out with joy.

Sergeant Tao was smiling too. At the gate Pao Ching asked,
** Fellow northerner, what does all this mean? I don’t understand.”
Sergeant Tao grinned. awKen the commmander wants a concubine, he has to get the approval of Madame Commander. She can’t stop him having women, but she likes to see that he gets the best. She doesn^ want him to have any girl. Particularly one who would infringe on her position as his chief wife and mistress of the mansion. She's smart, she is. She knows she's old and no good for the bed, but she can still rule the house. ** He chuckled. “She was impressed when your daughter stood up and spoke for herself. That settled it, Madame Commander doesn't want any independent-spirited girls in her house. Now you can go home and not worry any more. But it wouldn’t be a bad idea if you sent a present to the commander just to keep him sweet."
“But what shall I send him?”
Sergeant Tao made a ring with his thumb and finger. “Just something.”
“How much?” persisted Pao Ching.
“The more the better. Even a little is all right.” The 362 sergeant made a ring with his fingers again. ^When the commander sees money hell forget about women. M Pao Ching thanked Sergeant Tao. uWhen you come to town, please honor us by taking tea，” he said. “And be sure I shall not allow you to render me this service without doing something in return. ^
The sergeant was pleased. He bowed and grasped Pao Chiug's hand warmly. ^Anything you say, fellow northerner. A pleasure to have been of such small service to you.M Lx>tus Charm was looking happily over the lovely landscape. The thick woods, the rice fields, and the water buffaloes composed themselves in a striking picture. Everything was green, everything was happy, and she was free.

She thanked the sergeant too, a warm bright child smile on her face. Then she and her father walked slowly down the hill, out of the great forest. Pao Ching sighed. “So now that he is not buying you, we have to buy him. We must give him a present. **
“And money isn’t easy to come by，either，” said Lotus Charm, uHow can we give him money when he does nothing in return?”
“But we must do it. If we don't please him, he may make trouble seeing that he has not taken you. As long as we make it we can give him something, rm glad the matter is settled. I never imagined it would pass off so easily." He laid his hand on her shoulder. **And you played your part nobly. I know that you had to swallow your pride to kneel down to that old woman. But remember what she said ： * No one can look down on you if you do not humble yourself. That was good. Always remember it. Those words are worth millions of dollars. M Lotus Charm was thinking. She did not answer for a while. Then she said, uFather, don’t worry about me. I didn’t mind kneeling down. It made me feel grown-up. I am getting old fast now, and I can fight for myself. You know, if that old man really had taken me for a concubine I would have bitten his ears off. I would too.”
Pao Ching was shocked. Be not so sure, little girl, and never be proud, ^ he admonished. “Life is full of difficulties，and there are dangers on all sides. Let us remember those words — ‘ No one can look down on you if you do not humble yourselfWe might write them in a ballad and sing it."
They got into the litters that had been following them. When they were halfway down the hill they came upon Useless Fang waiting for them. They got down and walked again, and told him the whole story.

When Pao Ching had finished Useless Fang halted in the middle of the road. “Little Lotus，” he cried，“stand still. I must take a good look at you. " Ixitus obeyed, wondering if her uncle were a little mad. For a long time he looked at her. His eyes ran up and down her figure like caressing fingers. Then he said with a laugh in his voice, “My little Lotus — you are just right. You are like a child, but you are grown-up at the same time. Always be like you are today, and keep your stubborn temperament. Then you will never be a fallen woman, even if you are a drum singer. H Lotus Charm wanted to cry again, for no reason at all.


^ he Tangs were delighted about the Fang family’s troubles over Lotus Charm. To them it was incomprehensible that Pao Ching wouldn’t sell Lotus Charm. The man was obviously crazy. And imagine giving away money to keep a girl. “Just a fool/' squeaked Mrs. Tang.

Pao Ching wasted no time in making arrangements to send money to Commander Wang. He was a man of his word, and he was fearful of the consequences if he delayed. But he was woefully short of cash. When he asked Mrs. Fang if she would allow him to sell her jewels, she shouted, “Nonsense! It s none of my concern. You know that. As I told your brother, Lotus Charm is herself, and I am myself. I promised not to stick my nose in her affairs. But give my jewelry away for her? Ha! Ha!"
Pao Ching kept a smile on Wis face with difficulty. “But — you — well, you don’t quite understand.”
“I don’t understand!” Mrs. Fang was intensely scornful. uDo you understand? Other people make money on their daughters, but you wooden head, you spend money on this uo-good girl. Of course, if you understand, you don't have to worry about my understanding.”
UI meant you don't understand this particular situation 一 the danger we are in.”
“Maybe I understand and maybe I don’t, but I am not giving you a cent.

Pao Ching asked Lotus Charm to contribute something. She had a few jewels. She went to her jewel box, and brought them to him, cupped in her hands. He saw her eyes were wet, and his heart twisted with shame. “Please don’t weep for a few jewels, dear child，” he said. “When times are good again, I’ll buy you better ones.”
Pao Ching had some money put away, but he did not want to touch it, except in an emergency. He saved on a regular schedule, and to break this schedule was like cutting his own throat, so strong was his discipline. Besides, he rationalized, he wanted the whole family to take a share of this responsibility. That was one of the privileges of belonging to a family. As for Lotus Charm, she was growing up, and she above all should learn to be levelheaded about business matters.

Finally the money was raised and dispatched by trusted messengers. And from that moment the Fang family was divided into three parts.

Mrs. Fang was a part all by herself. Lotus Charm and Useless Fang were another part in opposition to the rest of the family. Pao Ching and Phoenix Girl remained aloof and neutral. It was rather like a divided parliament, he thought sometimes.

Pao Ching wanted to end the tension. One day he approached Lotus Charm, and asked her to be kind to her mother. uThat will bring the whole family together again,，? he said hopefully.                      *
Lotus Charm nodded assent. She waited until her mother was sober, then went and knelt at her side and touched her hand, smiling at the woman like an innocent child. “Mother，” she pleaded, “don’t always treat me like a stranger. I have no parents of my own. You are my mother now. You have always been my mother. Why do you dislike me?”
Mrs. Fang did not answer. She sat like a waxen Buddha, her eyes staring at nothing. She was apparently detennined not to listen. Once again Lotus Charm had humiliated herself for nothing. Well, it was the last time. She closed her eyes and bowed her head.

With angry thoi^hts in her heart she looked up at the plump pallid face, and started back in surprise. Mrs. Fang was weeping. Slowly the tears dropped from the corners of her eyes. Then Mrs. Fang bowed her head, as if she did not want Lotus Charm to see her weeping.

Lotus Charm got up to go, but Mrs. Fang called her back. She spoke softly with her head bowed. “I don’t dislike you, child. Please don’t think — don’t think I wanted to throw you away. Oh no, but my poor child, you cannot escape. You know the saying — 'Troubadours are without luck. ' That means you cannot escape your fate. Knowing this, what did I do, but decide it would be better if you went to a nice place, where everything was luxurious, and we poor old people could have some money as well. You wouldn’t want your father and me to lose out — after all the money we have spent on you. " She raised her eyes then, and looked steadily at Lotus Charm.

The girl was standing looking down on her. Her hands were on her rounded hips, her small fists clenched. She was remembering what Madame Commander Wang had said. With white lips she said, ** I may be doomed to ill luck, but if I do not humble myself I don't have to become a concubine. M Mrs. Fang just wiped her tears, and took another drink from the bottle.

Lotus Charm felt better after having talked to her mother. But she was disappointed that her mother hadn’t softened toward her. She wanted a mother’s love.

That night she resolved that if words wouldn’t convince her mother, actions might. She would have to show the family she was a grown-up person. But how? A sudden idea came. She got out of bed, went to the chest of drawers and took out her stamp album. After taking a long tearful look at it, she went outside the room, and dumped it in the garbage can. Stamp-collecting was a waste of time, for a girl who wanted to be serious and useful. But how to start on her new life? She hadn’t the vaguest idea. All the rest of the night she tossed in her bed. Again and again she wanted to go out and retrieve her precious stamp album, but she would not allow herself to do it.

Pao Ching received a request from the government，s Department of Propaganda. Would he and his troupe work for the cause? The residents of Chungking and the province blamed the refugees for bringing the war to them. The government's idea was to unite all China in a solidarity movement, and give courage to the people of Chungking, by convincing them that they were the same as the people fromudown river,as they called the refugees.

Pao Ching was overwhelmed when he read the official request .He was shocked though when Jeweled Lute asked, “How much does the government pay?，? Pao Ching knew that the government often did not even pay carfare. When she heard this Jeweled Lute tossed her shoulders and made a face. Mr. and Mrs. Tang shook their heads. “Nothing doing.”

l<But I will pay Jeweled Lute^ carfare, ^ said Pao Ching desperately. They laughed and laughed, as if it were a huge joke. When she had regained her breath, Mrs. Tang said, “You have money, Pao Ching, our fine friend. You are rich. We poor people have to work to eat. If we do this once for nothing，they’ll come again. But you 一 you re so rich that you gave money away to keep your daughter, instead of selling her. How lucky you are with all that money. M Pao Ching left them still guffawing. Back at the hotel he told Lotus Charm what had happened. “I’ll come, ” she said, “I want to do something worthwhile.

Then came the problem. What should they sing? Most of their patriotic ballads were too ancient to inspire modern audiences. Pao Ching hummed through one or two, but they seemed inadequate and unsuitable. Lotus Charm agreed. Lately she had been singing love ballads. When she tried the patriotic classics they sounded meaningless; and how could she use love songs for propaganda?

Pao Ching began to practice. He read the song, and began to play the air with one hand on the lute. He could not read all the words, but he struggled on, trying to match words to music. Whenever he found a word that fitted he was delighted. “Oh! I got one! ” he cried.

Useless Fang was asleep in the corner. The noise awoke him. He sat up in bed rubbing his eyes and staring at his brother's bald pate shining in the flickering light of the oil lamp. uWhy don't you get to bed, younger brother?^ he protested. “And isn’t it warm enough without the lamp?”
Pao Ching explained that he was studying the ballad of Ning Wu Gatey which told how a general and his entire family died for China. He was going to sing it to bring unity to the nation.

Useless Fang lay back on the pillow. **I thought you had caught a mosquito. It sounded like that.” Pao Ching went on playing, searching for words, and grinning happily when he found one.
“And what’s Lotus Charm going to sing?” asked Useless Fang.
“We don’t know, ” replied Pao Ching. “It’s difficult for her.”
Useless Fang sat up again. He cleared his throat, and his voice was solemn. “The trouble with both of you is that you do not read well enough. If she could read she could easily find some good patriotic songs, about people dying for their emperor.M He got out of bed. “Here, let me read it for you. I’m a scholar as you know. ’，
Pao Ching looked at him in amazement. “You don’t know any more words than I do. M Useless Fang looked insulted. “You know very well I do. I know all the words that are necessary* Now listen, and follow me.

The two brothers began to hum the melody. Sometimes Pao Ching found a word, sometimes Useless Fang got one, and they were both delighted. Soon they felt they knew the whole ballad. When daylight began to filter through the paper window Useless Fang suggested they should go to bed. Pao Ching agreed, but he did not sleep. He remembered another trouble. Jeweled Lute wouldn't come. That meant that Little Liu wouldnJt play.
“Elder brother, ’* he asked, whow about you playing the ac-

companiment?”
“Me?” echoed Useless Fang. “Me — why?”
“For honor and patriotism，” said Pao Ching quickly. ‘‘They’ll put your name in big type in the newspaper. Can’t you see it? They’ll call you ‘ mister. ’ It’ll be Miss Lotus Charm and Mr. Fang Pao Ching. You would like that.”
There was no answer but a snore.

When Pao Ching woke at eleven next morning, his three-stringed musical instrument was missing from its accustomed place in the corner. He jumped out of bed. He had been robbed. Without his precious instrument he was lost. He cried out in agony, and rubbed his bare pate with his hands. Misery, oh miseries — his wonderful three-stringed instrument. Gone! Then he saw that Useless Fang's bed was empty — and he smiled.

He hurried out of the hotel in the direction of the brook. He knew that Useless Fang loved to sit by the waterside. Presently he came upon him sitting on a large black rock and plucking at the strings. So Useless Fang would play his accompaniments. With a smile of relief on his face he walked back to the hotel and ate breakfast. To everything there was a solution. Now he had an accompanist, and he was no longer forced to rely on Little Liu.

Pao Ching and Lotus Charm were attached to a government group. It was billed to give a three-act play. The Fang family were to work in front of the curtain between the acts. Pao Ching was thrilled and flattered.

The driver of the Chungking bus brought him a batch of newspapers. His heart jumped with pride as he read the advertisements of the show. His own name, his brother^ name, and Lotus Charm^. In big type — with Mr. and Miss attached — titles of respect. Whooping like a school boy he showed the papers to the family. Useless Fang and Lotus Charm were delighted. Mrs. Fang was sarcastic.
"What does it matter if they call you * Mister,?>， she cracked. “You still have to pay for your carfare.”
The day of the opening they were all up early, dressed in their best. Lotus Charm wore a new light green silk dress, and leather shoes. On her braids she tied white ribbons. After breakfast she practiced walking without swaying her hips. Since she was to appear with real actors she had to acquire dignity. But it was very hard to walk with her hands straight down, her back stiff.

Useless Fang shaved. He not only shaved, which was a rari-ty for him, but he shaved with meticulous care. No bristle es-caped his razor. Then he trimmed the hair over his ears and at the back of his neck. He chose a dark blue gown to contrast with his brother’s gray one. To add a striking touch to his appearance he tied the cuffs of his trousers with long wide black ribbons.

They arrived at the city just before noon* Pao Ching had intended to treat his brother to a handsome meal as a reward for his kindness in coming to the rescue. But the sight of Chungking blasted and burned by the bombing took away their appetites. Some of the burned-out houses had already been rebuilt. The others were still black ruins, some with solitary walls standing, against which people had erected booths of reed, so they could carry on with their business. And on all sides were the nauseating scars of war, spaces of blackened rubble. Pao Ching felt as if he was seeing a giant corpse covered with wounds and sores. He shuddered. Perhaps it was a good thing to eat, to fortify their bodies and souls.

They found a restaurant. After a hearty meal they went to the theater to meet their fellow artists — the real actors. They found that most of them were young.

When they saw the Fangs the whole troupe came to greet them, and Pao Ching was flattered to observe that all the young men and women used the formal “Mister” when speaking to him. How different this was from those private parties where they were treated like servants.

When the curtain went up, the manager of the troupe asked the Fang family to sit in the wings and watch the play. Pao Ching had never seen a modern play before. His idea of a play was for each actor to come out on the stage and make a long speech, one after the other. But this was different. The players talked like people at home or in a tea shop. Pao Ching recognized the trained artistry of the players, and the astonishing technique of the production. It was wonderful, arresting. He sat so tense that he almost forgot to breathe. No flashy costumes, no loud-sounding gongs, just humanity enacted for humanity. He whispered to his brother, “This is real art.” Useless Fang ruxlded, “Yes — real art.

Lotus Charm was entranced by the performance. Her own technique was so different. She was used to singing a whole story, but she had never imagined that people could unfold a story as these people were doing. This was life even though it was playacting, and she sensed how the play was affecting the audience. If only she had such power.

The curtain fell. A handsome young man came up and bowed. “Miss Fang — you’re on.” He smiled and lowered his voice, **Now take your time. Our equipment is very old and inadequate, so we take a long time changing scenes."
Useless Fang walked ceremoniously out on the stage, and Lotus Charm followed. A table, a chair, and the drum had been placed in front of the curtain. Useless Fang halted dramatically and faced the audience. With slow dignity he rolled up his sleeves. Then he scratched his hair and started to play.

At the same time the audience started to talk. Useless Fang hesitated for a moment and continued. He knew nothing of theater audiences, and how they liked to divert themselves between the acts of a play. As for the audience they knew almost nothing about drum singers, and they did not expect anything to happen in front of the curtain that hid the scene-shifting. They paused for a second when they saw a man and a girl on the stage, but only just to look. The girl was small, her face was barely made up. In fact under the bright lights she looked as if she had no face at all. Just a little round moon above a green silk dress.

Two or three people in the front rows got up and went to the rest rooms. Others called for peanuts or began to talk about the play and the war news. The play was fascinating they all agreed, but what did it all mean? There were some loud arguments.

Useless Fang closed his eyes. To be insulted so. These barbarians. His hand stopped playing. Lotus Charm went on singing. She was Miss Lotus Charm today. She was here to sing, and sing she would. She would not lose face in front of these strangers. She sang on, but the noise in the auditorium became worse. She made a quick decision, and skipped a verse or two of the ballad, laid down her drumstick, bowed to the impolite audience, and walked off the stage. In the wings she burst into tears.

Pao Ching tried to comfort her, but she wept more, sobs shaking her body. Some of the young actresses came over. “Don’t worry, Miss Lotus Charm, ** they said. uYou sang beautifully. These people simply do not understand. M One sweet-faced girl put her arm round Lotus Charm and wiped away her tears. “We are both show people, little one, ” she whispered. “We understand.” Lotus Charm was happy again.

Useless Fang was standing in the wings. His face was red with anger.        going home, younger brother, " he announced,

and he laid down the three-stringed instrument. Pao Ching grabbed him by the arm. “No, you are notHe drew himself upright. “I have not sung yet.”
The pretty young actresses heard what Useless Fang had said, and immediately came over. They clutched his hand and patted his shoulder. “Please，sir, please.” Useless Fang sat down. He was no longer angry. Instead he was flushing with pride. He, too, was a “mister” now，and a real artist.

After the second act the Fang brothers marched on stage, shoulder to shoulder, like warriors going into battle. The audience was talking as before. Pao Ching halted, and gave them a professional smile. Few of them noticed it, so he stamped on the boards and shook his shining head. Pao Ching waited a moment, and as a little calm came on the crowded theater he picked up his drumstick. Although there was a smile on his face, he was biting his lips.

The drumstick was raised. Pao Ching held it poised in the air, and then 一 crack, boom 一 he began. He had finished eight lines of the ballad about the patriotic general, when he noticed that the audience was paying some attention. He paused then,

momentarily, and cleared his throat. He wanted to select the right tone for his voice，so that it would be heard in every comer of the house. He wanted to be sure, too, that everyone in the theater knew what he was singing about. Pao Ching still wailed, waited until there was not a sound in the whole theater. Then he began again, singing with brilliant competence, his voice perfectly pitched.

He wanted the people to hear and appreciate every word of the story he was telling. How the patriotic general came home from the battlefield, and how his aged mother set fire to his home, so that he would have nowhere to live, no sentimental attachments, and thus would go out again to fight to the end for his emperor. Anti so consummate was the art of the drum singer, that the audience had the illusion of hearing the sound of battle in the pounding rhythm and the twanging of the three strings of Useless Fang's instrument. They heard the crackling of the flames, the neighing of the horses, and the sonorous beating of the war drums. The three-act play was forgotten, as the appeal of the ancient tone poem assailed their hearts.

And the tragic ending of the ballad. Pao Ching had made a subtle change in his manner, a softening of the voice. The great Genera] Chow was wounded and bleeding to death, his body pierced by the arrows of enemy troops. So turning to the north, he knelt to say farewell to his emperor and his parents, and killed himself with his own sword.

The last note of the three-stringed instrument faded away. Everywhere was silence — tense and charged. The audience seemed dazed, hypnotized — until suddenly they burst into thunderous applause.

Pao Ching seized Useless Fang’s hand，with the unselfish gesture of a true star. He bowed, and Useless Fang bowed awkwardly, too. The audience cheered and cheered. Pao Ching graciously picked up the three-stringed instrument and carried it off stage — his tribute to the great musician who was his elder brother.

Behind the curtain the entire troupe of performers gathered round Pao Ching and Useless Fang. They patted them on the back and kissed their hands. A wild demonstration from the young intellectuals. Pao Ching could not speak. He stood with the clamorous youngsters round him, and the tears rolled down his face.

After the show 'Pao Ching was approached by a tall thin man who looked more like a skeleton than a man. His bones stuck out everywhere. His cheeks were sunken. His long, thin chin seemed to hang over his narrow chest, and above his ears his head seemed to have shrunk, as if it had been bound tightly with a cord. His was the oddest face Pao Ching had ever seen, but set under the narrow brows were a pair of large and fascinatingly bright eyes. They burned into Pao Ching's with an arresting zeal. It was as if every ounce of energy in this strange person was fused into the fire in his eyes.
“Mr. Fang, M he said, umay I walk with you awhile? I have something important to discuss . ” His voice was humble, shadowed with doubt，as if he was afraid that Pao Ching would refuse.
“Of course，” replied Pao Ching with a smile. “I am honored. M He observed that the fellow was wearing a shabby European suit, without a necktie. His open shirt revealed a sharp bony chest.

MMy name is Meng Liang, " said the man. **l am the author of the play you just saw.”
Pao Chiug bowed with respect. “Mr. Meng, please permit me to introduce my elder brother, Mr. Fang, and my daughter, Miss Lotus Charm — and may I say that your play was wonderful .”
The author laughed. “Other people’s wives are always more attractive, M he said modestly, “but when it comes to writing I suppose we all think our own is the best. My writing is not bad, but a play is a headache. People don^ realize what it costs to produce a play. The long and boring rehearsal, the anxiety of getting it just right for the public. Of course, a play is a good vehicle for propaganda. But we are fighting a war, and we are poor, so we cannot afford the money that it costs to produce a play properly. You know how it is. You have to pay for a theater, and the rents are high. We play to the people here, and raise their patriotic zeal, but how are we to reach the people in the villages? There are no theaters there, and if there were how could we move our scenery and our props?”
He wagged his thin face.
^Ah, ah, a play is very limited, but your drum singing is the real thing — the ideal vehicle for propaganda, r am amazed. All you need is your voice, your accompanist, and a good ballad. So you go to a tea house along the riverbank or wherever you like. You are a one-man show with a million voices. Remember how you held that audience? They couldn’t move, as you struck at their hearts." He pointed a skinny finger at Pao Ching. “You, my friend, are what this country needs. Your art can produce the greatest results with a minimum of money. Do you see what I mean?”
Mr. Meng stopped short. He stood looking at Pao Ching, his hands in the side pockets of his European suit.

Pao Ching smiled and smiled. His heart was thrilled, not for himself, but for his beloved drum singing, and because this intellectual had recognized its importance.
“So you see my point?” continued the dramatist. He began to walk again. “But you need new ballads. You need modern themes suitable to this war of resistance. You and your daughter both need new material.” He looked at Lotus Charm. “You， Miss Lotus Charm，you must learn new material. You wept because the people were not interested in your song. But don't worry, give them what they want and they will acclaim you, as they acclaimed your father.，f
“But where can we get new material?” inquired Pao Ching .
Meng laughed. He pointed his skinny forefinger at his own chest. uHere, here — in this heart of mine. I shall write for you.”
“You will write them?” Pao Ching echoed. “Oh, Mr. Meng, we are honored. Please be assured that from now on, you are our teacher.”
Mr. Meng raised his hand as if to check their enthusiasm. “Wait，my friends, wait. Before I am your teacher, you must be mine. You must teach me some of your old ballads, so that I can learn the art. I want to get the melody and rhythm of drum singing, and learn how to fit words to your music. So we shall both teach each other.”
Pao Ching was a little dubious as to what he could teach the dramatist, but he agreed. He indicated Useless Fang. “My brother will be able to help you, Mr. Meng，，，he proposed. “He can sing as well as play.”
Mr. Meng was radianlly enthusiastic. “So it is arranged. Then I shall come to live at South Warm Springs to write my new play. And as a diversion I shall learn drum singing and study writing ballads for the drums. In return for your instruction in this fascinating art, I shall be honored if you will allow me to teach your daughter to read and write. As a modern woman she will find it very useful.”
Pao Ching raised his face to the sky, and in his heart he said a prayer of thanks. Recognition at last — a triumph for the ancient art of drum singing. Never had the future seemed so promising nor the past so fruitful.
“Uncle! Father! ”        Charm cried out. “】will soon be a girl student! I will study hard with Mr. Meng. I promise I will do that.”
14 rs. Fang had never heard of anything so stupid as Lotus Charm's learning to read and write. Her ideas about girls were fixed： they grew up and went wrong, without education; educate them, and they would go wrong more quickly, the degree of their shame infinitely worse. “Every girl wants a man without knowing how to read，” she stormed. “Heaven knows what she’ll do knowing all that.”

But Meng Liang wasn't worried by anything she said'. He was set on coming to South Warm Springs to teach Lotus Charm. He was fragile in body, but he had the will of a lion. You could easily imagine him walking right through a mountain.

Lotus Charm was anxious to start learning. The experience in the theater when the audience had ignored her singing had hit hard. She was intelligent enough to recognize that she needed experience to meet situations like that. And she had a deep regard for the young actresses she had seen. To her, their independence was a thing to be desired. She reflected, too, that all the actresses she had met at the theater had been students, and she felt that even if she was an entertainer, were she educated her status would not be as lowly as it was now. She was determined to learn all she could from Mr. Meng. She might never have the chance to go to school, but if she were able to read and write, she would be almost the same as other students, and she could learn in her spare time.

Fao Ching and his brother were delighted at the prospect of Lotus Charm's getting an education. They both recognized her intelligence .With education there was a better chance of her talents being realized、
Nothing would convince Mrs. Fang. She was worried at the threat to her own superiority over the girl. Imagine having a girl who could read and write in the house. Such horrible things might happen. Students she knew believed in free love. It was all right to sell a girl, but to let her give her own body away for nothing ... . Her heart shuddered at the thought. She was deeply sincere in her beliefs. Sometimes as she went about the vStreets of the little town and came upon a boy and girl walking to-

gether hand in hand, she felt sick to the stomach.

The first day Meng Liang arrived for the lesson the Fang household welcomed him with the best jasmine tea and plenty of good things to eat. Pao Ching suggested that his elder brother should have the first lesson, but Meng wouldn’t hear of it. He wanted to teach Lotus Charm. The arrangement was that he would teach her for an hour, and then afterward he would study himself with Useless Fang. He would work for five hours or more, he said.

Useless Fang was pleased. “All my time is yours, ” he said. “We can work together all night if you like.”
Lotus Charm was waiting for her lesson. She had tried to dress as much like a student as possible, with a white cotton jacket and no make-up. When her father called she hurried to the living room.

But her mother was too quick. She bounced in front of her daughter and gave her a sharp shove to stop her. Her face was pale and determined. “I’ll go first，” she said. “You wait here! ” Lotus Charm had to obey.

Pao Ching was disturbed when he saw his wife. What would she say to Mr. Meng? He and his brother revered the scholar. How terrible it would be if Mrs. Fang insulted their guest. His face was set in serious lines, as he saw his wife walking determinedly toward them.

All his life he had needed education. When he had wanted new ballads before, he had always had to pay heavily, and dine and wine the writer. And now here was a man who was willing to teach his daughter and to write new ballads for nothing. But if his wife insulted the poet...

He managed to introduce Mrs* Fang and he added quickly, “Where is Lotus Charm? Mr, Meng is waiting for her.” Mrs. Fang ignored him. She looked straight at Mr. Meng and made a little speech. “We are just entertainers, sir，” she said. “And as such we don^ need to learn to read and write. We 11 be better off without it. This girl is intelligent enough, but if she is educated, we’ll have trouble with her. She’s willful now. I can see you are an understanding man, so piease look at our side of the question.

Useless Fang!s face was white. He wanted to thrash his sister-in-law, but in the presence of the distinguished scholar he dared not start a family quarrel. Pao Ching was scared.

But Mr. Meng was master of any situation. He gave Mrs. Fang a broad smile and addressed her familiarly. “My dear sister Fang，” he purred, “please sit down.”
Mrs. Fang was flattered and surprised. She sat down. Deep inside her she was frightened of educated people. To her they were of a different world. Because they knew more than she did, she always took pains to avoid them. Here was one addressing her in familiar terms and smiling at her. How did a writer know how to call a woman “sister.”
Meng Liang was all charm. uMy dear sister, you like to drink, I know，and why shouldn't you. Now this is an occasion for a drink — you and I are meeting for the first time, so Til drink with you. There is an old saying. 4 The more drink the closer friends you become, the more you gamble the thinner you are.? So let us drink.M He looked at Pao Ching. “Elder brother, pray get us a bottle of good wine, and let us all drink."
Pao Ching's admiration for Mr. Meng mounted. He was not only a famous playwright* but he was a diplomat and a charmer.

He had sensed that it was useless to argue with Mrs. Fang，but could win her support by giving her liquor.

Meng poured three cups of wine, one for Mrs. Fang, one for Useless Fang, one for himself. He didn’t offer Pao Ching any， knowing he had to take care of his throat. “Bottoms up!” he cried, raising his cup to Mrs. Fang, “Bottoms up! ”
He drank his own cup at one gulp. Useless Fang did likewise, not wanting to be outdone by Mr. Meng. Mrs. Fang protested coyly, WI have to drink slowly, I cant keep up with you men.”
“Certainly，sister，” laughed Mr. Meng. “You drink as you like — we’ll carry on.” He filled his cup and drank again. Then he made a wry face, as he slipped his hand in his pocket. “Oh， sister, there^ a hole in my pocket. Will you be so kind as to mend it for me — a poor man without a wife.”
Mrs. Fang drained her cup and took the coat. “Mr. Meng,” she gurgled, “you are a good friendShe felt motherly toward the writer, but she did not call Lotus Charm for her lesson, and Mr. Meng decided to wait for another day, to save the lady's face. Before he left he promised Mrs. Fang that he would come to play poker with her, or mah-jongg if she wished, but he begged her not to ask him to play for too high stakes. All this pleased her immensely.

The next day Lotus Charm had her lesson. She was a good student. She managed to remember about twenty words a day, and her calligraphy, though not expert, was small and neat. Mr. Meng was pleased with his pupil. He enjoyed learning drum singing, too. Useless Fang taught him not only how to sing, but told him endless tales about th history of drum singing, which Mr. Meng found entrancingly interesting.

After a few lessons Mr. Meng was singing to Useless Fang's accompaniment. But his voice was far from developed. Useless Fang made no comment on that. His pupil was making progress.

One day while Mr. Meng was singing the hotel manager burst in the door. He was furious. He shook his hand at Useless Fang and screamed at the top of his voice. “You get out of here， you. That terrible noise is disturbing my guests. I won't have it any longer .”
Meng Liang smiled innocently. “Why，you are the very man we want to see. You know, I admire your beautiful Szechwan accent. Why don’t you come and sing some local ballads for us? I’ll wager with a voice like yours you can sing like a bird.M The manager liked the flattery. He knew he couldn't sing a note, but Mr. Meng insisted. uCome, my friend, sing for us, please.”
The manager smiled; then he turned his face to the wall, as he had seen professional singers do, and made a great show of loosening his throat muscles with his fingers.

Then came the song — something between a scream and a squeal. After a few lines the manager stopped, his face red. Meng Liang and Useless Fang gave him no chance to be humble. They both applauded. Meng Liang slapped him on the back. Useless Fang greeted him in the courteous old-fashioned way, bowing with his hands clasped.

When the manager had gone the two friends sat for a while smiling at each other and then began to work again. Afterward Meng Liang played cards with Mrs. Fang. The two of them got along very well. Mrs. Fang didn't understand most of what he said, and he had no reason to argue with her. She just listened, and he talked, and he listened to everything she had to say, sometimes adding a deft compliment to her intelligence.

And when she lost her temper he did not get up and walk out. Instead, he diverted her attention to something else, as if he were handling a pampered baby.

Pao Ching was always worried about his wife’s losing her temper when friends were around. He felt that it lowered him, so whenever they had company he was the model of conciliation; even when he said something wrong which he knew would annoy her, he would say it with an endearing smile.

Meng Liang's method was more successful. He saved Pao Ching hours of embarrassment by handling Mrs. Fang so expertly. Pao Ching warmed to him for that. Here was a true friend and a learned man.

But Pao Ching was troubled. By nature he was suspicious. Why was Meng Liang so helpful and kind? Did he want something? In his experience, most people who went out of their way to be polite and helpful were looking for something in return. What did Meng Liang want? Pao Ching couldn’t decide, and at the same time he was angry with himself for being suspicious of such a good friend.

In spite of all his doubts he never quite forgot that Meng Liang was his lucky star. Those new ballads the poet was writing for him, for the great drum singer, Pao Ching. With them he and Lotus Charm could rise far above all other drum singers. In that alone, he was lucky to have met Meng Liang. But his doubts were always with him.

And why didn’t Meng Liang produce the lyrics? Two months had gone，and not a word had been said about them* He had made up his mind to mention the matter one morning, when Meng Liang arrived. His eyes were gleaming with excitement, his pallid face damp with sweat. He waved his long arms like the sails of a windmill. “Come, brother, M he cried, snatching at Pao Ching’s sleeve, “we must have a quiet place to talk.”
They set off at a rapid pace. Pao Ching had difficulty keeping up with the poet. At bestj he was always a few steps behind. Finally they came to a tall tree with yellowing leaves set on the top of a grassy mound. Meng Liang flung himself down, and sat with his back against the trunk.

Then from his pocket he took a sheaf of papers of different sizes. “There，” he said, “three new ballads，written for you.”
Pao Ching took them. His hands were trembling. He wanted to say something, but his tongue swelled in his throat- He felt as if the sun had suddenly risen in the west instead of the east. Three new ballads. Three ballads written for him. In the old days when he asked a writer to produce something he had had to pay in advance, and had sometimes waited a year. The writer would always promise, would eat a hundred meals at Kis expense, and then forget to write. And this man had actually done what he had promised. Not one ballad, but three ballads. Here was a true friend, a genius, a great man.
“Now please understand，second brother，” said Meng Liang in a humble modest tone of voice, u I have never written any ballads before, so I don't know how good they are or how bad. But that is no problem. If you don,t like them I can throw them away and we can start over again. If you can use any part of them, why, we can change whal you don't like. The most important thing is whether you care to sing this particular kind of ballad.” Pao Ching found his voice. “Of course I do. Too long have I been waiting for a person like you. I want to serve China. Others have died at the front, what little I can do I shall do gladly. Certainly I shall sing patriotic ballads to further the war of resistance.?，His heart swelled as the tears shone in his eyes.

ul understand all that, M commented Meng Liang quite unmoved by his friend's emotion. aBut what you have to remember is that when you and Lotus Charm sing these new ballads everyone will want you to sing them free. People will enjoy them, but you won’t make any money. It^s the same with me. The theaters are crowded these days. More people have seen my plays than ever before, but we are losing money. We give more free shows than paying ones. Of course we are glad to give our services, but patriotic sentiment doesn^ pay our debts. Much less fill our stomachs.

Pao Ching wouldn’t listen. uWe'll only have to pay our carfare. The expenses won’t be high — not like with a theatrical company.”
“Fine, I admire your determination. Now here's another point. People are conservative. They like to hear the old ballads. When they hear something they already know they feel they are not wasting their money. If you sing these ballads in the tea houses, you might lose customers.”
“One has to have courage to do something new, ” replied Pao Ching firmly.

Meng Liang laughed. “I feel better, knowing that you can take care of yourself. You’re not going into this blind. Now I’ll read these to you. The first is a short number, very short. It’s in praise of Chungking, the provisional capital. This is for Lotus Charm. The other two are longer. They'll be for you. They are not only long, but they call for considerable emotion and dramatic timing. Only a seasoned artist can do them. That is you, my second brother —* you will sing the ballads of the war of resistance, which I have written specially for your talent.”
Meng Liang then read the ballads almost in one breath. “What do you think of them?” he asked anxiously,
“Wonderful! I may want to change a few words, but that’s all. I am overwhelmed. Now I can show the whole world that the drum singers of New China have as much patriotism as the rest. ^ “Splendid. Take them and sing them over with your brother. But consult me when it comes to making changes. No one but I can change my work. Be sure to tell me, and don't make a single change without me.”
uNaturally, M agreed Pao Ching, picking up the sheets of paper that Meng Liang had strewn on the grass. “Now let’s go home and have a drink. ** He folded the papers and put them in his pocket carefully as if they were deeds to precious real estate.

Meng Liang shook his head. “Not today. I am sleepy. I worked all night.” Meng Liang nodded. “When the fire bums it must be fed. I shall sleep here. Leave me, please.”
Pao Ching bade him farewell. He walked home, his head high, his eyes shining. If Meng Liang could work all night, so could he. Useless Fang too. They would practice their new songs all night.


he foggy season had come again to Chungking. Everywhere one could hear the sound of hammering. The people were rebuilding the city. They worked fast, and within a few months the scars of war had almost vanished. In the main streets, at least, there was hardly a sign of destruction. Only in the back streets were those hideous blackened spaces noticeable, where the bombs had done their horrible work. And there was a difference in the new face of the city. Two-story houses instead of three — and they were of flimsy wood and lath construction. They made the city look broader and shabby, giving the impression of a vast shanty town.

Pao Ching busied himself helping the owner of the theater with the repairs. He found laborers, carried materials himself, and worked on the rcx>f with what men he could muster. Finally the theater was usable again. It was not beautiful by any means, but it was a theater again and ready for opening.

On the opening night they sang the new ballads. Lotus Charm sang hers first, as Pao CKing watched from the wings. He was always fascinated when he watched her, and this time he noticed she had acquired a new technique. In many respects her singing was the same, but in a subtle way it was different. She was putting more interpretation in her words. There was fire and pathos in her voice, and every word was clear and distinct. For a while he was puzzled and then it came to him. Of course, this was because she was learning to read and write. For the first time 390 in her life the girl really understood what she was singing. That was because Meng Liang had gone over the ballad word for word with her, explaining the meaning of everything. He had drawn for her a series of word pictures of the events of which she was singing, and he had accomplished a miracle. She was singing with her heart.

The audience also noticed the change. They appreciated the new ballads, but they were obviously enthusiastic too at the progress the girl drum singer had made. When she had finished they joined in loud applause. Lotus Charm had never had such a success.

She came running backstage, her pigtails flying. She almost collided with Pao Ching. “Father，” she cried，“I don’t know what happened to me. When I went out I thought I could not remember a word, but suddenly everything came flowing from my heart; and I was singing in time, and I knew itHer young face clouded. “But why wasn’t Mr. Meng here? I wanted him to hear me.”
Pao Ching wondered that too. Meng Liang had not turned up. He was pondering this as Lotus Charm babbled on. She told him how much better it was to know what she was singing, how Mr. Meng's instruction had helped her.

Jeweled Lute approached them. Her face was set, her eyebrows pursed. She did not congratulate Lotus Charm, as she had intended, but stood listening to what they were saying. She had never been jealous of Lotus Charm because it had seemed that the younger girl was no competition. But now she was worried. All that applause for this child, just because she had sung new songs. At all costs she had to outshine her. If Lotus Charm was the star of the show, she would also get the pick of the rich men who came to pay their compliments to the artists.

For a moment she nibbled her full underlip. Then with a shrug of her shoulders she walked away.

When it came her turn to appear she sang a romantic sexy number. But the audience was attuned to patriotism; romance did not fit with the rest of the show, no matter how alluring the singer. For Jeweled Lute it was a defeat — the first time an audience had been cold to her. Tight-faced she went to Lotus Charm's dressing room. She flung herself on the couch and said in a harsh dry voice, “How’s the little scholar? Where did you get that new ballad? And who taught you? He must have a long arm to be able to get all that feeling into you. M Lotus Charm swung round. Her face was scarlet. But before she could answer Phoenix Girl burst out, “What do you mean Jeweled Lute?”
Jeweled Lute grinned airily. “What I said. If my language isn’t pleasant to you，little girl, then go cover your ears,”
Phoenix Girl looked as if she was going to cry. “You’d better go see my mother if you want to talk like that，” she said angrily and got up. Jeweled Lute took the hint and went out, but over her shoulder she flung a foul word concerning man’s anatomy.

Lotus Charm looked helplessly at Phoenix Girl. “Why do they have to talk about that all the time? You know, mother says it，too.”
Phoenix Girl shook her head. “I wouldn’t know，” she said truthfully. “But that’s how it is.”
Lotus Charm felt hot all over. She looked at herself in the mirror and deliberately said the foul word over and over to herself. She didnJt feel any different. Why did others like to use it? Mr. Meng had never mentioned it, so perhaps she should not say it aloud. She appreciated Mr. Meng. He gave her peace of mind, and she never felt humble when she was with him.

Pao Ching sang his new ballads. The audience applauded, but afterward some of them said they came to the theater to get away from war, and they would rather have the old songs. Pao Ching merely smiled and said, M〇ne has to try new things someday.

Lotus Charm told her father what Jeweled Lute had said. Pao Ching laughed it off. “She’s lazy, that’s all, ” he remarked. “She just doesn’t want to learn. She’s jealous.” When Lotus Charm asked him why Jeweled Lute used her mother^ favorite word，he didn’t answer.

Upstairs in his room Pao Ching reflected that this was one of his good days. Lotus Charm was a drawing card now. If the Tang family caused any trouble he could tell them to take that trollop of theirs with them. It was a good feeling.

Business prospered for a month. Between shows Pao Ching and Lotus Charm filled in with free performances for the govern-ment, recruiting and collecting money for the wounded. The newspapers were quick to notice their free shows. Scarcely a day passed that their names were not in print. Pao Ching began to feel that he had really arrived. Now they were respectable people, artists on the same level with the new school of acting.

One night he took Lotus Charm to supper and told her how lucky they were. “Last year you were nothing，” he pointed out. “Now you are a star，far more important than Jeweled Lute. You should be very happy.”

She didn’t answer immediately. “Well，” he insisted, “what are you thinking?”
She gave him a half smile. ^So you think I shall be as respected as the stage people if I keep on learning new ballads?M She wanted to rise as high as she could in social status in order to forget having had to kneel before Madame Commander Wang, and to avoid being sold as a concubine.
“Of course，” said Pao Ching. “The more you learn the more you will be respected. ^ But he wished he had not said that, because one half of him was certain that learning would bring this woman-child to destruction.

They said little to each other after that. Lotus Charm went to bed without hardly a word, which made Pao Ching desperately unhappy. She was withdrawing more and more inside herself these days.

The next morning Pao Ching had a visitor. It was Fourth Master Tang, looking sly as ever. Pao Ching could tell from his expression that something was afoot.
“Pao Ching, ” began Tang，UI want a long leave of absence for my daughter.”
Pao Ching smiled. “She has found something better?”
Fourth Master Tang’s eyebrows went up. His hands made a disparaging gesture. “Of course. I have formed a new company myself. I picked up a few girl singers, and I feel they should be employed.”
Pao Ching wanted to dance with joy. There were hosts of singers from Shanghai and Nanking in town now. Every day one or two came to pester him for jobs, but he would not take them on, because most of them were part-time whores, and he did not want such people in his show, even if they could sing like angels. Let Tang have them — and Jeweled Lute as well. “My earnest congratulations, brother,” he said. “May great fortune attend your efforts. ^
Fourth Master Tang was in a magnanimous mood. “My dear Pao Ching，” he said，“I shall never forget how you helped us when we first arrived, and as you know, I am a most generous person. Never can it be said that I am not the first to return a favor. As I said to my wife, everything we do must be to help our dear friends, the Fangs. So this is what I will do.” He paused, his little rabbit teeth bared, his black eyes fixed on Pao Ching. “How would you like it，if we asked you and Lotus Charm to join our show? You would have top billing on the male side of course, and Lotus Charm — well, she would be about fourth — seeing her voice is weak. ’，
Fao Ching couldn’t smile in the face of this effrontery. “I wouldn’t think of it, ” he snapped. “I have my company and you have yours.”
Tang^ eyebrows raised a little. uBut you realize, dear brother, that Little Liu will not be able to accompany you any more. I shall need him for my own company. M Pao Ching wanted to hit Fourth Master Tang, to push him over and kick him in the face. The old turtle, the sly scoundrel.
“But，Fourth Master, M he said evenly although his hands itched to do violence to him, “our acts are so different，it wouldn't work. I’ll have no trouble getting an accompanist. ’，
Fourth Master Tang lowered his eyelids，blinked slowly, and then slid away.

Pao Ching knew it was a battle of nerves when Mrs. Tang waddled in. Her face was wreathed in a greasy smile. She cackled gay greetings to everyone, and went straight to Lotus Charm's room. In her hand was a bunch of faded flowers she had picked out of a garbage can. She gave it to Lotus Charm and purred, MLotus Charm dear, IVe come running over to ask you to help. I know you will. You are such a good-hearted girl.”
Pao Ching wasted no time. He confronted Mrs. Tang and congratulated her warmly, shaking his hands up and down, as if he were applauding a great star. wMy dear Fourth Sister-in-law, congratulations! It will be my pleasure to send you some of the best silken scrolls I can find. What a happy day for us all. M Mrs. Tang let go a mighty burst of laughter. It sounded as if a firecracker had gone off deep in her belly. “I’m glad you feel that way, and what else do you think has happened? Jeweled Lute and Little Liu are getting married. It’s about time, of course. But it does keep him in the family, doesn't it, and that’s important in show business.” She cackled like a hen as she said that, and wagged her fat face at Pao Ching, who looked like a man who had lost his fortune but found a dollar.
“Wonderful，” he said with a precise, faked smile. “With such a double happy event the whole Fang family will certainly have to come over to congratulate you.”
When the old slut had gone, Pao Ching had another fight on his hands. Mrs. Fang had her own ideas on how to run a theater. They were ruined now. Everything was his fault. He should never have learned the new ballads, and why hadn^ he hired all those singing girls, to stop the Tangs’getting at them? He hadn’t a brain in his body.

Pao Ching ran angrily from the house, to see Little Liu. Lit-

tie Liu looked like an embarrassed lobster when Pao Ching congratulated him.       so sorry, elder brother, M he mumbled con-
tritely, wso sorry/*
“Why be sorry?” inquired Pao Ching in tones of honey. “We are brothers sworn under Heaven, so we can help each other always. Your marrying Jeweled Lute is one thing — your art and playing is another.”
Little Liu looked miserable. **But I have promised the Tangs that when we are married I won't play for you any more. That is one of the terms of the marriage contract, elder brother ‘ ”
Pao Ching wanted to spit in his face, but he kept his smile. uAll right, younger brother- No hard feelings. DonH feel sorry.

Then Pao Ching went to South Warm Springs as fast as if he were being chased by an army of ghosts.

He found Useless Fang. “Hello, younger brother,Useless Fang said. “I have some new ballads. Mr. Meng has written them. Listen! ”
“Never mind about the new ballads,’，said Pao Ching. “We are in a mess. Something awful has happened.M He told Useless Fang the story. Then he said, “What do you say, elder brother? You come right back and help us fight the Tangs.”
“I’ll admit it’s a problem，” conceded Useless Fang. He was beginning to feel cold, as the prospect of having to work loomed on the horizon.
“It’s cannibalism, ” cried Pao Ching. “I treated them so well, even Little Liu, and because of that bitch's arse, he turns his back to us. The little prostitute! May he have crabs the rest of his life." Then, because Useless Fang was trying to look unconcerned’ he said sternly, ^ You have lived on me all these years,

so give me the good word. Don’t just stand there saying nothing! ”
Useless Fang sighed. Tears glistened in his eyes. He shook his head, and then he said, “Don’t worry, Pao Ching, I will come with you. Am I not your brother, and will I not give you sweeter music than that little lobster ever produced? But you must be sure to give me a special billing. Bill me as Amateur Mr. Fang Pao Sun. I don't want to appear just as a professional accompanist .M Pao Ching agreed, the tears rolling from his eyes. He loved his brother and understood the sacrifice Useless Fang was making. “My dear brother, ” he sobbed, “you are a real brother, and they call you Useless. But every time I am in trouble who comes to the rescue? It is you. You are more helpful than anyone I know . ”
Useless Fang told him later that Mr. Meng was going to the city. Pao Ching immediately produced money to buy bus tickets for all of them. Was not Mr. Meng their lucky star?

On the way back in the bus Pao Ching figured his profit and loss： lost Jeweled Lute, the singing tart; lost Little Liu, the musical pimp; a new company to compete with — lost a few patrons too lazy to walk to his theater. Gains： his brother as accompanist; a new star in Lotus Charm; his face, most certainly. So he had won face. He felt happy about that and began to sing, making up his lines, **Elder brother plays, younger brother sings. Arise, Little Lotus — arise, arise, arise.”
The other passengers looked at him oddly, but said nothing. These uforeignersM were queer, they had decided.

Lotus Charm was delighted with the news. Pao Ching knew then that his next hurdle was to break the news to his wife. He decided lo try some of Meng Liang's tactics. He sent Phoenix Girl out to buy wine, and ordered meat dumplings and soya noodles for dinner.

The next evening Pao Ching had visitors. First, Little Liu burst in to see him, and stood trembling and speechless. Behind him came Fourth Master Tang, looking like a wolf dog that had been whipped and thrown into a pond. Neither of them spoke.
“What has happened?” Pao Ching demanded.

Fourth Master Tang almost screamed. “You’ve got to help me. You must. You’re the only one who can.”
Pao Ching raised his eyebrows. “What can I do if I don’t know what has happened? Money, I have none, ” he added quickly as an afterthought.

Little Liu screamed the bad mws. “Jeweled Lute has been arrested.” He wrung his hands, and ihe vsweal poured from his pallid face.
“Arrested?” echoed Pao Ching. “What for?”
The pair looked at each other. Neither seemed to want to explain. Finally Fourth Master Tang explained with a pained air； MThe child was careless. She was attending an opium party in a hotel with some friends. She wasn’t smoking herself, of course, but they were. She was careless.”
Pao Ching had a wild desire to laugh, to spit in their faces. The old whoremaster, the pimpish bastard — coming back to him with their troubles, because their tart was in trouble, and not for hawking her wares on the streets. But he checked himself. He was not one to rejoice or profit by others' misfortunes. Just because he didn't do what they did, was no reason for him to judge them. You had to take your friends as they were, even your enemies.
“So what do you want me to do?”
uFind some of your influential friends and have her released. It's our opening night tomorrow. What can we do without our star? If you can*t get her out of jail, you and Lotus Charm will have to come and help us out.”
“I can’t do that, ” Pao Ching retorted Hrmly. “I don’t have time, but Vll use my influence, if possible. ^
Fourth Master Tang was insistent. uYou and Lotus Charm must come to help us. I promise I won’t let her mix with the other girls. Please come.”
Pao Ching nodded, wondering why he hadn5t the courage to say they would come only if Lotus Charm were given top billing. She would get it, he would see to that. The situation amused him. The idea 〇£ Lotus Charm's getting top billing on the Tangs1 opening night! And she would have it, if he had to write the posters himself.

Lotus Charm was thrilled at the idea. It was the first time she had ever had top billing.

After the show, she held tightly to her share which Fourth Master Tang had given her. She decided she would give this to her mother to make her happy. Now, she had her top billing. When she earned her money, she would give it to her mother to seeifshewouldstiUbecoolandindifferenttoher.

She ran upstairs with the money in her hand and called as she went, uMother, this is for you. I earned this money for you to buy drinks.”
Mrs. Fang smiled. On general good principle, she never praised Lotus Charm. But having money for drink pleased her-“Come on, ’，she said, “I’ll let you have a taste of my drink.” She dipped the chopstick into the wine cup and allowed the liquor to drip on Lotus Charm’s tongue.

Lotus Charm sang happily as she walked back to her own room. She undid her braids and put her hair into a bun at the nape of her neck like a grown-up woman. She liked the effect in the mirror. She decided that she was grown-up. Why? Had she not even pleased her mother? She undressed and stood looking at herself in the glass. Phoenix Girl came as she was sitting in bed. Phoenix Girl saw the bun and laughed. “What on earth are you doing?” she queried.

16
(q ergeant Tao was a good-looking young man, tall and well-built, with a clear ivory skin and bright eyes. He was polite and cordial, as a true northerner should be, but although he was basically kind, his years in the army had hardened his good nature and calloused his feelings. He could be tough and cunning. He had a polished manner, which made people like him, but it was hard to tell when he was sincere. He had not known his real self for so long，he had forgotten how he used to be.

He had a mixed notion of what profit from any deal should come to him. For instance, that strange affair of Pao Ching, the drum singer and his daughter. Sergeant Tao had really meant to help Pao Ching because he came from the north — and two north-

erners should help each other. But he had not told Pao Ching and Lotus Charm the best way to save themselves, before they were interviewed by Madame Wang. Yet when Lotus Charm talked back to the old lady, Sergeant Tao was sure that he was the savior of the Fang family. They owed him everything, and as grateful fellow northerners, should show their appreciation in an appropriate way.

He was a frequent visitor to South Warm Springs, managing to be in town on business almost every day. He began by bringing Mrs. Fang bunches of flowers from the gardens of the Wang mansion, and a basket or two of vegetables. And who could send such a kind sergeant away without a drink or two and a well-cooked meal? He certainly was a charming fellow. Of course his gifts cost him nothing, but having to entertain him regularly was a strain on the Fang budget.

And Sergeant Tao was no mean drinker. He was in fact the most fabulous drinker Pao Ching had ever met. His capacity seemed to he limitless. When he got drunk his face might grow a trifle pale, but his conversation was always amusing. Never did he annoy anyone, or become insulting, and if he paid himself occasional compliments that was understandable.

Pao Ching had met all kinds of people in his travels through the years, but he did not know how to classify Sergeant Tao. He was not sure that he liked him, but he could never be certain that he disliked him. When he was away from the sergeant he didn’t like him at all，but when the sergeant was around, Pao Ching was often convinced that he was the best of fellows.

Yet there was much about Sergeant Tao that he did not like. The man was too smooth, too anxious to please, too free with other people’s drink.

With Mrs. Fang, Sergeant Tao got along very well. Mrs. Fang liked men of all kinds, but with Sergeant Tao she was completely at ease. She liked Meng Liang too, but he was different —too remote, with his education and culture. Sure, he could play cards and smile, but when Sergeant Tao was around she felt that she had never really risen to Meng Liang’s level. She could, of course, understand the sergeant better, because he came from the north. His colloquialisms were the same as hers, and his mentality was much the same too. She understood and laughed at his jokes without trouble.

Day after day the two would sit together making jokes and telling off-color stories. Mrs. Fang was an accomplished flirt. When she was sparring with a man, she knew just the right intonation and how to use her eyes. She had no interest in the sergeant, nor in any man, but it kept her from being bored to exchange stories with him. As for Sergeant Tao, he knew how to handle Mrs. Fang. If she tried to play up to him, he would slip out of the situation and still be friends with her. This he had learned from being an orderly to Comnjander Wang, who had several concubines, some of whom had cast meaningful glances at the handsome young soldier.

To Mrs. Fang, Sergeant Tao told the story of his life. He was an ambitious law-abiding young man. One dream of his life was to be married and to raise a family, but as yet he had not found a suitable wife. These local bumpkins! He shook his sleek head. Well, how could a northerner marry into such families. And as he spoke, his eyes strayed to where Phoenix Girl was sitting at the window, looking like a forlorn little sparrow waiting to take flight. Yes, lamented Sergeant Tao softly, he had as yet not met the right family to provide him with a wife.

Inside Mrs. Fang something kindled. The sergeant would make a fine son-in-law. That’s what she wanted — a nice handsome fellow around. That would be just the thing for her declining years.

Sergeant Tao rarely passed up the opportunity to get something good for himself. Phoenix Girl might be no beauty, but she was a virgin, tight and trim, and that would be fun for a few nights. And she could cook, and keep house. Also> she would be a link with the Fangs who he felt were worth cultivating. Old man Fang obviously had money; else how would he have paid all that bribe money to Commander Wang. It made good sense. He could marry the girl, have fun with her for a while, and at the same time milk the old folks.

One night he and Mrs. Fang discussed the matter seriously. She had been coy at first, opposing the marriage just to tease him, but Sergeant Tao was outspoken and convincing. Suppose Commander Wang wanted to make more trouble for the family. If their daughter was married to Wang!s sergeant, how could he do such a thing? And when the day came for him to quit Wang^ service, what wonderful things he could do for the Fangs. How could they miss the opportunity of acquiring such a son-in-law? He stood up and flexed his muscles. uSee my strength. When Tm standing in the lobby of your theater, do you think anyone would dare start anything? And I have worked for Commander Wang-What an honor for your husband. Don't tell me he doesn^ need a person like me . ”
That night Mrs. Fang talked to Pao Ching about marrying off Phoenix Girl to the sergeant. At first Pao Ching was shocked. Then he viewed it as a reasonable proposition. He was glad that the sleek sergeant hadn’t picked on Lotus Charm. But was it right to sacrifice Phoenix Girl? The sergeant was surely not innocent. He might have been married before. Well, if he was, how could one find out in wartime? He had many things that would make him a good son-in-law. After all, he was around most of the time sponging on the family, so why not let him marry the girl?

All night Pao Ching argued with himself. Phoenix Girl should get married and settle down. He would ask her if she cared to marry, if she liked Sergeant Tao. If she did, well and good. Once she was married she would be out of the family, and was it not written somewhere that a parent could not look after his children all their lives? Stupid even to think one could-
When he asked Phoenix Girl, she blushed. But when she blushed Pao Ching knew that meant yes, so he accepted it. And yet he was worried. Perhaps he hadn5t been fair to her. This cxld child of his, although she was his own flesh and blood, had never had a definite place in the family. Always she had taken a back seat to Ixitus Charm, the adopted daughter. And she was so retiring that her mother got mad at her. Well, this was her fate, to be married to Sergeant Tao, who had asked for her. He would do his duty as a parent. There would be a grand wedding, as lavish as the village could provide- He would give her a dowry and a complete trousseau for the four seasons, and some of the jewelry he had stored away. No one would say that his daughter was married like a streetwalker. He knew his etiquette. A wedding ia ihe Fang family would be a wedding to remember wherever it took place. Show people, perhaps, but show people with style.

Just after the New Year, Sergeant Tao posted his deposit for the marriage with two of the town's leading citizens. Two rings were wrapped in separate red papers, on which the sergeant wrote his birthdate. To celebrate the contract, Pao Ching gave a dinner at the town's best Cantonese restaurant. The guests of honor were the mayor of South Warm Springs who registered the intention of marriage, the police chief, the leader of the fire brigade, and their friends. Pao Ching also invited the Tangs and Little Liu. This was his opportunity to show them that when his daughter got married, he could do things properly.

Lotus Charm tried hard to talk to Phoenix Girl about her forthcoming marriage. The night of the dinner Phoenix Girl looked radiant in a green silk dress, rt was the first time that Lotus Charm had ever seen her look nice, but she had been strangely silent all through the proceedings, holding her flushed face high and seeing no one.
^ril be so lonely when you are gone, ** Lotus Charm said that night as they prepared to go to bed. Phoenix Girl did not answer. Lotus Charm flung herself down on her knees and took Phoenix Girl's hand in hers. *(Please say something, elder sister. Talk to me for once.”
“I want to go, ” said Phoenix Girl dimly. “There’s nothing for me here. No position, no comfort, no home life, no love. So ri) take my chance. If you marry the dog, follow the dog; if you marry the cockerel, follow him. What else can I do? I cannot earn a living. I can only follow you and father from place to place. No one ever notices me, no one wants me. I loathe not knowing how to make money, and I hate being your shadow. You are beautiful. You can sing, people look at you and want you. No one ever wanted me, except Sergeant Tao.” She smiled wanly. “When I’m married I’ll know that I have the same ability as other women, to quit a man’s passion.”
Lotus Charm l<j〇ked hurt. This strange girl talking like this. And after all the years she had tried to be nice and friendly to her. “Do you hate me，elder sister?” she asked coolly.

Phoenix Girl shook her head. “I don’t hate you. Your lot is worse than mine. You can t have a formal wedding like me. For that I pity you.

She might better have driven an arrow through Lotus Charm's heart.
“Look at Jeweled Lute，” Phoenix Girl continued. ** Why-does my father dare invite her to our house? If she’s out of jail， she is coming to the wedding, he says. She sleeps with Little Liu and many others as well. She’s a drum singer，the same as you.”
Lotus Charm's eyes flashed venom. Her lips were thin white lines. “So you think I’m like her，” she said impatiently. “You don’t hate me. You just don’t consider me — as if I were rubbish in the gutter.”
Phoenix Girl shrugged her lumpy shoulders. “I don’t know，” she said，“I don’t know what I think about you.”
Lotus Charm spoke after a long pause. w Elder sister, please pretend that you love me — just for make-believe. I have never been loved by anyone. You know how mother treats me, so please, you be different. Just say that you love me and that you and I are best friends. Say it, even if you don^ mean it. Give me some consolation. You know I haven't one person who really loves me, and I want someone to love me.M She bit her lips and the tears bubbled in her eyes. “I do，I want someone to like me.

407
“All right，” conceded Phoenix Girl, “I love you，stupid. I am your best friend. ’，
Lx»tus Charm wiped her tears. Presently she asked, “Aren’t you afraid to be married to a strange man? Do not think he’ll treat you well?”
“Of course I’m afraid，but what can I do? I’m just a girl. Nothing is ever right for a woman in this life. We’re animals. You are different, because you earn money，but what does that get you. People look down on you because you sing for a living. I can’t earn money，so I have to do as I am told，and get married. There’s no other way out. A man’s going to get me，but he’ll have to sign a paper and eat a big dinner first. Ha! ha! ”
Lotus Charm thought for a while. “Do you think those girl students are the same as we are?”
“How should I know?” retorted Phoenix Girl bitterly. “I have never been a student.She began to cry, the tears gushing down her face.

Lotus Charm wept too. Poor Phoenix Girl. So all these years she had felt lonely and unwanted. And now she was to be married. It meant that she, Lotus Charm, would move up in the family. Would they marry her to a stranger? Who could tell? She remembered what her mother had said： There never is a happy ending for a theatrical girl.And Phoenix Girl said she hadnH a chance of being married formally as she was going to be. She would have to be a streetwalker like Jeweled Lute. Well, was that any different from being married to a stranger for the money your father could put on your head?

She went over and sat on the bed, where her book was lying. She tried to read, but all at once the printed words made no sense. They seemed to say： “Lotus Charm，you are just a drum singer — Jeweled Lute the second. Who do you think you are? Who? What ideas do you have? Forget them. You’ll never be happy.”
When Meng Liang arrived to give her a lesson she was struggling with her book. “I would like to ask you something that’s not in the book，” she said with a smile .
“Of course, Lotus Charm, go ahead. ** Meng put his hand in his pocket, and fingered a peanut he found in the lining of his jacket.
“Mr. Meng，” Lotus Charm demanded，“what is love?”
Meng Liang looked cheerfully helpless. Then he said, uWhy ask me about such a big problem all at once? There^s really no answer. "
“You mean no one knows?”
“Everyone knows，but no one understands. But why do you ask this, Lotus Charm?” Meng Liang’s thin face was serious. He sat down on the chair opposite and stared curiously at her.

Lotus Charm licked her thin lips. u I want to know because I know nothing. I have no brothers or sisters. No friends. No one loves me. Men follow me, and want to pinch me. Is that love? My sister is getting married to a man she doesn’t know. He’ll sleep with her, and she’ll cook for him. Is that love? Young men and girl students walk in the park hand in hand, and lie kissing in the grass. Is that love? Jeweled Lute goes to bed with any man who will give her a dollar. Is that love?^
Meng Liang blew a loud breath as if puffing invisible smoke from his stomach. “Take it easy, girl. How can I answer all those questions at once? I can’t, so let’s try just one of them.

Your sister’s marriage，for instance. That’s not love. It’s a kind of horrible legacy bestowed on us by ancient custom. She has to obey her parents, and marry some man, when she is old enough. If she were modern and everyone were modern, she would choose her own husband, ”
“Like Jeweled Lute?”
He shook his head. “She doesn’t choose husbands. She just sells her body. In love there is no element of buying or selling. Love is not a business, but a life work.”
Lotus Charm thought awhile. She held her sturdy brown ankle in her strong slim hands. “Teacher Meng, if I were to make a friend of a man would that be wrong?”
“No — not in itself.”
(<If I decided to marry him myself would that be wrong?" “Not to my way of thinking.”
^Would a marriage like that be happier than the one my sister is entering into?"
“It all depends.”
“On what?”
“I can’t say exactly. I told you there is never a definite answer to such problems. w
“Then we’ll leave marriage aside. Now if I have a man friend and my parents don’t like him, what should I do?”
“Fight for him，if he is worthwhile.”
“How will I know if a man is worthy?”
“How can I tell you that? You should be able to tell.” Meng Liang sighed. w You see, your problem is like a vicious circle, one circle within another. I think it would be more profitable for us to go on with our studies. M Lotus Charm did little work that day. Why hadn’t Mr. Meng answered her questions? He ought to have told her everything. Her confidence in him was shaken. He had talked about everything as if he had no real interest in her problem, and yet he had suggested that she had the right to choose her own husband. He had agreed to everything she had .said, and even advised her to oppose her parents. What kind of man was he to give such advice so casually and yet dodge answering the main questions.

She decided to ask him again. She would frame her questions to give him no escape. A mischievous thought came. She snickered. Well, perhaps he might instruct her in things besides calligraphy. The thought was so ludicrous that she snickered till her stomach ached.

When the foggy season was over they went back to South Warm Springs. Pao Ching had not had a good season in Chungking because the Tang troupe had cut into his earnings, though not enough to ruin him. The theater-going population of Chungking was divided into two classes ： those who liked more sex and less music，and those who likgd music and its consequent exaltation. The latter were Pao Ching's faithful clients. Pao Ching had come through with enough to eat and enough to live through the summer season.

He was anxious to get Phoenix Girl married. Since she had become betrothed to Sergeant Tao it seemed as if he had taken on a new responsibility. It was the first time that he had been really aware of the burden of looking after his only daughter. He felt sometimes as if he were handling a priceless piece of antique china, which would be ruined if chipped or cracked. Such responsibilities a father had. When a girl had decided to get married you never knew what she might do or what some impudent rascal might attempt.

So he planned the marriage the moment they got back to the village. Lotus Charm was more thrilled about the prospect of her sisters wedding than anyone in the family. She felt as if she were seeing a play at first hand, in a good seat. She would be able to note what difference marriage made to a girl, and whether her sister was really happy. Then she would be able to measure her own chances of happiness. How exciting. There were nights she could not sleep from sheer wonder.

Phoenix Girl was as quietly morose about everything as ever. She worked hard sewing her trousseau, and Lotas Charm noticed that sometimes she smiled to herself, as if she was enjoying a dream. She understood the smile. Poor Phoenix Girl wanted so desperately to leave home, to be a person on her own, to escape this untidy place presided over by a drunken mother. Her urge to leave was so strong that she wasn't in the least bit scared of sleeping with a man she didn't know.

As the day for the marriage approached, Useless Fang progressed farther and farther into a drinking bout with his sister-in-law. He drank to keep Mrs. Fang company, because he felt it was a shame she should be the only drunken one in the family, and he did not want her to lose face. Besides, he felt sad at losing Phoenix Girl. Never had she given any trouble to anyone, never had she cost the family any extra money. Always she had been a quiet willing household slave. And now she was going.

Mrs. Fang ordinarily cared little for Phoenix Girl, but £is she became more intoxicated she remembered that this was her daughter, her own flesh and blcx)d, and that she would be unhappy if Sergeant Tao did not treat her well. These were motherly sentiments well pickled in wine, which made them taste better than if they were taken plain.

Lotus Charm wanted to tell her mother that she was willing to take Phoenix GirFs place in her heart, and in the house. But she decided that this was not the appropriate moment. She could nor help remembering that her mother was weeping and moaning because Phoenix Girl was getting married, but that she had not shed a tear when she was in danger of being thrown to Commander Wang as an unwilling concubine.

Suddenly Lotus Charm heard a commotion in the living room. She went to the door. Her mother was shrieking at the top of her voice, and her uncle Useless Fang was yawning. Her mother's words struck a chill into her unhappy heart. She felt dizzy all at once, and then fired with a furious rage. “When Phoenix Girl is gone, ** her mother was saying, **ni have a wonderful time. I’m going to get a baby boy, and bring him up as my own. There are loads of war orphans, aren't there? Vll take a good one — a little bastard with big eyes, old enough not to wet Kis pants. n So her mother would never love her. That was clear. Whether she made money singing or sleeping with men, her mother would never be satisfied. She was just a drum singer without a real mother. What kind of world was this, anyhow? She felt bitter and drained, as if her blood had turned to ice and had frozen in her heart. Even the thought that her father was kind, did not help. He meant well, but what could he do? He couldn^ answer her questions, he couldn't be a mother and a father as well.

She felt him beside her, and turned. He looked older and tired, but his eyes were bright. He touched her shoulder and said in a whisper, “Never mind, Lotus Charm, when you get married I’ll make your wedding ten times as grand. The biggest wedding ever. Do please believe me.”
She turned away and went back into the bedroom. Why had he said that? Did he think she was jealous? She wasn’t jealous. She just hated the world and everything in it. Tears came to relieve her.

17 jj arriage had a profound effect on Phoenix Girl. In the short 1 space of three days she had changed miraculously. Lotus Charm was both thrilled and bewildered to see it. How could a girl change so much? When the new Mrs. Tao arrived to pay her first visit to her family, she looked as if she had been completely made over. Her eyes were sparkling, her face radiant and composed in a mold of supreme happiness. Even her body seemed different .Before her marriage when she put on a dress, she had always lcx>ked stiff and ill at ease, like a prisoner in fabric; as if the dress were wearing her, not she the dress. Now she was wearing a dress, and filling it. Her breasts showed firm and tight, giving her graceful curves for the first time, and even her long thin arms seemed to have acquired a soft supple grace that was attractive.

But she was still uncommunicative; although Lotus Charm was astonished to hear her use a word to her mother that she cer-

tainly would not have used when she was just Phoenix Girl, the drab little daughter of the Fangs. So that^s what marriage did. It gave you the right to use bad words, and it made you look attractive. She wrote the thoughts painstakingly on a sheet of paper.

When she and Phoenix Girl were alone she asked her about marriage, and whether she liked it. Phoenix Girl didn't seem to hear. She was looking at herself in the glass, and raising her arms to see how tight her dress was across her newly developed bosom.

Lotus Charm tried hard to study after that, but her heart felt empty. Somehow words were not enough. She wrote out all kinds of questions for Meng Liang.

Then the Tangs arrived in South Warm Springs. They had had money to burn and had taken to bad habits like ducks to wa-ter. Fourth Master and Jeweled Lute began to smoke opium, and they taught Little Liu, too.

Opium smoking was really Fourth Master Tangos only pleasure besides obtaining money at someone else’s expense. He smoked and smoked, not merely because he liked it, but because he felt it raised his social position. When people in Chungking knew that he was an addict, they said, “That Mr. Tang must have money” 一 which pleased Fourth Master no end.

So he smoked, and Jeweled Lute smoked, and so did Little Liu. And the more they indulged, the lazier and dirtier they became. Mrs. Tang took over any business that had to be done, but she lacked the necessary charm. She lacked charm so much, in fact, that when people saw her, even the meekest would growl and spit before she had a chance to browbeat them with her fearsome tongue. The Tang business fell away to nothing, and smoking opium in Chungking was expensive. Local officials resorted to blackmail so they too could afford the illegal pleasure. What better way of paying the cost than by blackmailing others who could pay to avoid being thrown into jail. Jeweled Lute had been arrested once. That was enough for her. She made her father pay heavy protection money to keep them all out of jail.

When they returned to South Warm Springs the Tangs were broke. Fourth Master washed his face and changed his clothes, and then went to see Pao Ching. Fourth Master looked like a sick yellow ghost, because of the ravages of the drug habit, but he could still argue and drive a bargain without insulting everyone, which his wife could not. He proposed that the Tangs and the Fangs join together and give shows in the local tea houses for the summer.

Pao Ching did not want to. He was doing well enough. And he was busy setting Meng Liang's new lyrics to music for the next foggy season. 丁o hell with the Tangs. Let them work alone. But still 一 one day he might really need Little Liu. Useless Fang might not want to play always. He was erratic, and he might get sick. Playing accompaniments was a strain for an older man unaccustomed to work. And Pao CKing himself liked to take it easy. When Fourth Master found him, he was wearing only a pair of loose pants, his broad bronzed shoulders damp with sweat.

When Pao Ching told him that he would have to wait a few days, that he was too busy to think of singing in tea shops, Fourth Master was convinced that Pao Ching was out of his mind. And there was black rage in his heart as he realized how lightly his former associate had brushed him off. He would have to even the score, and get the better of him.

He sent Mrs. Tang to talk with Mrs. Fang. Mrs. Tang was not a diplomat. She bellowed at Mrs. Fang. Was she crazy, too, to sit there and let Lotus Charm and Pao Ching do nothing when they could be earning good money to fill the family rice bowls? How very foolish!
All this, Mrs. Fang flung at Pao Ching when she next saw him. He took no notice, so she repeated what she had said. Still he didn’t seem to hear，as he continued setting the new lyrics to music. Finally Mrs. Fang shouted at the top of her voice. Pao Ching put down his manuscript and got up. He hitched his loose pants higher round his waist, and said, **Shut up, will you? Now listen to me for once. Here's what I have to say. The Tangs are not our sort, and I want nothing of them. They smoke opium, we don’t. So we can consider ourselves lucky. And consider yourself lucky, too. You haven’t given me a son. But do I fight with you over that? Do I want to take a concubine? No! You drink, I don't, so let's stay that way. I want to work on these lyrics, and do some good for China, and I need a rest for my voice. Is that too much to ask? I have to be shouting at people all winter. I made enough money for you to live in comfort, so please allow me to do what I like, and keep that Tang family out of my affairs.”
It was a long speech for Pao Ching. Mrs. Fang sat back in her chair, speechless. Her husband hadn^ unloaded himself of so much to her for years, not since the early days of their marriage. And he had done it when she was sober, which meant that she had to admit the reason of what he had said. How right he was , so right that it hurt. There was really nothing she could pick on to dispute now she was sober.

Finally she said, “You said I gave you no sons. That’s true. But Tm going to adopt a baby boy, and quickly. Then you’ll have a son around the house.”
Pao Ching didn’t answer. When she wasn’t watching though, he stuck out his tongue at her. The old fool thinking she could look after a baby. She couldn't even look after herself.

With nothing to do Lotus Charm began seeing a great deal of Jeweled Lute. She had to have someone to talk to. Although Phoenix Girl had never said much, Lotus Charm had talked at her quite a lot. Now she wanted a substitute, and Jeweled Lute was the only girl available.

Besides, she had good reason to see a lot of Jeweled Lute. The other drum singer knew so much about men and love. Lotus Charm plied her with questions about what men did to women. Sometimes Jeweled Lute told her something and somtimes she just laughed. Lotus Charm should find out for herself. Anyhow, Jeweled Lute made things clearer to Lotus Charm's immature mind than did Teacher Meng.

Pao Ching was angry with Lotus Charm for going with Jeweled Lute, but he was too busy with his transcriptions to worry. He told his wife to keep an eye on the girl, but Mrs. Fang was too busy drinking.

Then Phoenix Girl came home. She looked as if she had been run over by a steam roller. Her eyes were dull, her face long and drawn, and she seemed to have aged twenty years.

Lotus Charm could hardly wait to get her alone. uElder sister, what has happened?” she demanded, shaking Phoenix Girl by the shoulders. “Tell me, is anything wrong?”
Phoenix Girl began to cry. Lotus Charm shook her gently as if to waken her. “Tell me，elder sister, what has happened. Through a mask of tears Phoenix Girl began. ‘‘I found out the truth of the old saying about following a dog when you are married to him. She rolled up her sleeves. There were black blotches on her arms. *'He beats me. " She choked and hid her face in her hands.
“Why?” Lotus Charm was insistent. “Why?”
Phoenix Girl didn、answer.
“Why do you let him?”
Phoenix Girl looked at her with scorn. **Let him, stupid? I am no match for him.”
“Then tell father.”
“What’s the good? Father can do nothing. He is an old man. Besides he’s only a drum singer, and I am a drum singer’s daughter. What can lie do?”
Lotus Charm was shcx:ked. Poor Phoenix Girl. She was given to a man and he beat her, and for her there was no escape. She couldn’t earn a living，so she had to put up with it. Suddenly Phoenix Girl gave a low moan. “What is it?” inquired Lotus Charm in tender solicitation. “What is it?”
“And Vm going to have a baby. I know it，” mumbled Phoenix Girl. “He’s made sure of that.” It would not be easy for her to get married again if she had a baby. She made Lotus Charm promise not to tell her father, then fixed her face and went home, holding her head high, even smiling as if to show everyone she was really happy.

Lotus Charm told Pao Ching. He stared at her as if she were telling a lie. It had never occurred to him that such a thing might happen. Since Phoenix Girl had left the house he had hardly given her a thought. And now this sleek young cockerel was beating her. And what could he do about it. He couldn't go and argue with Sergeant Tao. What good could that do? Besides, he might run into unexpected trouble at the Wang mansion. Sergeant Tao might enlist the help of Wang to make things unpleasant for the Fangs. A man who beat his wife was capable of anything. Pao Ching felt helpless.

Then he argued with himself that he had no right to interfere anyhow. But on the other hand perhaps he should.

He would think it over and decide what to do. He warned Lotus Charm not to tell her mother or Useless Fang; and particularly not Jeweled Lute. If the Tangs heard of it, the Fangs would be the laughingstock of the town.

Lotus Charm looked her father full in the face. Her fists were clenched on her hips. u So you are going to let my elder sister be beaten by that young turtle and do nothing about it?M He reddened. “I didn't say that. But we have to think. There must be a way out.”
Lotus Charm was furious. “I’d kick him in the... , ” she cried angrily. She stamped her foot and added, “Women just don’t have any luck. It doesn't matter whether they are virgins or tarts, they all get the dirty end of the stick. M And she let go with one of Jeweled Lute!s choice epithets.

Pao Ching gasped, and went on his way. So much seemed to have happened since he had been setting Meng Liang's words to new music. How quickly things could happen.

Lotus Charm kept the secret until Teacher Meng arrived to give her her lessons. Perhaps he would have a solution. As an educated man he should know how to combat brute force with intelligence. And when she had told him Lx>tus Charm added her ulti-matum, “I’m not going to study any more, Teacher Meng. Our family is unlucky. It is because we are singers. Why should I waste time when I will never amount to anything. People like us will never have a chance to rise above circumstances.”
Meng Liang did not answer for a while. He merely sat staring into the sunshine. Lotus Charm was angry at him for his silence. This, she supposed, was another of those questions he would not answer.
“Lotus Charm，” he asked at last，“what are the Chinese people doing now?”
“Why, fighting the Japanese.”
“Are they winning?”
“I don’t think so but they are fighting.” uExactly, but why are they keeping on fighting, if they are not doing so well?”
“Because if they don’t keep fighting they’ll be conquered by the Japanese,
“Exactly. If you are intelligent enough to know these answers you don^ have to worry. Now consider how poor our country is, and how weak. But she has fought a war of resistance for three years, and our people are bracing themselves for further struggle, the great ffight for life. Now a nation is like an individual, because a nation is made up of individuals. And individuals have the same experiences as nations do. In particular, the struggle for life. The more you struggle to get on, the more difficulties you encounter. You have to make up your mind to surmount all handicaps, or you will never get anywhere. You women are the victims of an antiquated social system, so strong, so enduring that too many of its poisionous practices still exist.
“Take me. I am a playwright and have my problems. You are a woman and you have yours. Women have always been ill-treated or ignored in this ancient country. But you want to make something of yourself, so you must fight for your progress. I see woman^ position today as that of a girl with bound feel competing with the rest of the world in a track race. But your feet are not bound, nor is your spirit. All that is necessary is to work harder. Your sister got beaten. Why did she get beaten? Because she never tried to make anything of herself. She only knew slavish obedience and honesty to the family system. How could she know that the old forces that degrade a woman can be overcome by the rebellion of women themselves? If we hadn’t fought the Japanese we should be overcome now. If you don’t fight prejudice and custom you will be overcome.”
Lotus Charm thought a long time. Presently she said, still don’t see the use of studying any more. I suppose I’ll get married and get beaten by some no-good man.”
Meng Liang laughed impatiently. “Oh no, you won’t.” He flourished a pencil and scrawled something on a sheet of paper. “Lotus Charm’ allow me to draw a new life path for you. I suggest that you go to a real school and study like other girls. You sing in the evening and have all day free. So go to school. Then you will be like a person with one foot in each of two boats, always wise. If you make good progress you can develop into a girl student instead of a girl singer. If you don’t, you are still a girl singer who will have greater knowledge than any other. Does that appeal to you? School by day, study by night.
“You see, I want you to be independent, to be able to earn a living if the necessity arises. Imagine how much better Phoenix Girl would be if her parents had taught her a trade. She could have left that low character and earned her rice. She would not have had to marry him in the first place. w
“So，if I study I won’t have to become another Jeweled Lure?”
“No — no need at all.”
“Do you think my parents will let me go to school?”
‘Til talk to them，and I’ll persuade your unde to help. ’， “But what about my sister?”
“That is a different matter. We’ve to think of a way. Thought always conquers, but we have to be prudent. At the moment we have won a victory. We have decided that you won1! become another Phoenix Girl, nor a Jeweled Lute. Instead, you will be a woman of free China, a new modern woman with a will of her own, and the ability to earn a living. A wonderful prospect. v Lotus Charm decided to be even more diligent in her studies. Every day she would learn a certain munber of words before the sun went down. To her the words were as flying red horses that would carry her to a new world — a world where there would be no whores, no opium, no daughters given into the slavery of marriage； a world full of intelligent men like Teacher Meng. She felt important, a piece of young China, rising out of the musty past, moving into a new fragrance of life.

As autumn approached，the Fangs got ready to go back to the city again. But they had lingered too long in South Warm Springs. One afternoon, without warning, a horde of enemy planes arrived and dropped a string of bombs on the village. What they were after no one knew. The village had no military establishment. It was merely a health resort with many houses owned by the rich. But there were rumors that some of these wealthy people owned huge reserves of gasoline which they stored in tanks to sell on the black market when the war was over. And some Japanese spy may have told the enemy that these gasoline tanks were military supplies.

There was the shattering explosion and a toll of human lives, but the gasoline tanks were unhurt.

The Fangs lived on the outskirts of the town by the stream. The raid came so unexpectedly that they had no time to run for shelter. Instead they went into a field and lay flat under a rock by the riverside.

All except Useless Fang. He liked to walk, and he did not like the mosquitoes that flew round the rock in clouds. So he walked on by the side of the stream. When he heard the buzzing of the planes in the sky he looked up placidly and decided that they were on their way to Chungking. Certainly they wouldn't drop anything on South Warm Springs. They made a pretty sight, silver airplanes in a blue sky, with little puffballs of white smoke bursting among them, as the Chungking aircraft began to shoot. Pretty sight. Too bad the gunners never hit the planes. Too bad — someone should do something about that.

The planes went on. Useless Fang sat under his favorite tree. “So it goes on, ” he thought to himself. “An air raid, more houses destroyed, more people killed. How senseless it all is. When will men learn better?”
Then the planes came back. Useless Fang wondered. Suppose they had come to bomb the town. Perhaps he had better take shelter. But he stood staring at the silver wedge of planes hum-ming through the air. Pretty sight. Strange beauty. The guns never hit them. Better run. They might drop a bomb. Go back to the rock, get out from under the tree. You might get hit.

Useless Fang began to run. He heard the great singing sound of a bomb. He felt the earth shudder with a quivering thud. Then another bomb swished down. The explosion seemed to press in on his ears. He kept running until a huge rock tom out of the ground by the explosion of the last bomb came sailing through the air and struck him in the head.

Pao Ching found his brother a little distance from the tree where he usually sat. Useless Fang lay on his face, his legs sprawled. Pao Ching touched him. “Elder brother, elder brother, wake up. n There was no answer.

He turned Useless Fang over. There was no blood, no wound. He was just asleep. He must be — or drunk. Pao Ching picked him up, and supported him against his knee. Useless Fang's head lolled over as if his neck were made of rubber.

Pao Ching still could not believe his brother was dead. He sniffed at his breath. But Useless Fang^ lips were set and cold, there was no breath, and his hands were wet and limp as a fish.

Lotus Charm came up then, and burst into tears. Pao Ching put his brother gently on the grass, and fanned at the flies which dived down to settle on the dead face. “Elder brother，elder brother, why did it have to be you”

Lotus Charm told her mother, and soon the whole family was weeping. Then came the neighbors to weep, out of politeness to the Fangs. They gathered in a group round Pao Ching who stood like a statue over the body of his brother. His eyes were bright and dry, but his face was racked with grief. He could not move or speak.

And it had to be UvSeless Fang, the brother who had lived on him for so long, who always came to his rescue in an emergency. The brother who was so intelligent, who was so honest and so helplessly critical, the great musician — the learned one. Poor Useless Fang. His only worry had always been to die away from his native town. And now here he was stricken in this remote mountain region far from home.

The sun had long gone down, and the moon was now high in the bleak dark sky. The neighbors had gone home, but Pao Ching still stood over the body of his brother. Shortly before morning, Lotus Charm approached her father and tugged at his sleeve. “Come home, father, ” she whispered. “Let us take him away.”
18 rs. Fang took over the funeral arrangements. Since the weather was warm, the funeral had to take place with — in three days. And Pao Ching was completely helpless. All that he knew was that his brother had been killed, that he was dead, that he would never hear his voice again. Beyond that his mind was blank, and it seemed as if there was no feeling left in his body. He had no appetite and had lost all inclination to wash and primp himself.

Mrs. Fang was a tower of strength. She took over everything, made the white funeral clothes, arranged with the undertaker and set up the altar. She dressed Pao Ching in his funeral clothes and made him drink some tea. When he was standing mute and grief-stricken beside the coffin, she would look in occa-

sionally to see that he had not fainted. She it was who met the friends at the door when they came to pay their compliments to the dead. Pao Ching was aware that people had come, but he was not able to recognize them. He stood up and greeted them me chanically, and then went on mourning. If they talked to him he nodded, but he had not the slightest notion what they said. He was a living man walking in the dream of death.

Of one person alone he was conscious. That was Meng Liang. He was the soul of kindness, the spirit of helpfulness, the manifestation of understanding. Only he had the warmth of feeling to penetrate the wall of grief that Pao Ching had erected round himself. The Fang family were astonished at the sympathetic consideration showed them by Mr. Meng.

To them he had always been a remote and superior being — a writer and a poet who had come to study drum singing. Now he was treating them as equals and showing himself as a real friend-And he was ready to do anything to help. When friends came to mourn at the side of the coffin it was Meng Liang who kept them company. He talked with them, ate with them, and sat up with them for the formal all-night wake. Even in his grief Pao Ching realized that if he had lost a much-loved brother, he had indeed found a true friend.

They purchased a funeral lot on the top of the hill, and Meng Liang supervised the digging of the grave. As the coffin was lowered, Pao Ching threw a handful of dirt on it in accordance with the traditional custom. There were no tears left in him now. He stood, a gray-faced, bald-headed man, staring dazedly at the grave as the undertaker^ men shoveled in the earth. It was the end of his elder brother. Useless Fang sleeping beneath the cold ground.

Long after the others had gone Pao Ching stood at the graveside， a solitary figure， mourning his loss. A little way away stood Mrs. Fang, Mr. Meng, and Lotus Charm.

Then up the hill came a porter carrying Pao Ching’s drum and the three-stringed instrument on which Useless Fang had made his sweet music. The sky was graying now, and great blue clouds with white edges were rolling across the landscape. In the fading light the green of the hushed fields became starkly vivid» and the branches of the trees became sharp black silhouettes.

Pao Ching tcx>k the stringed instrument from the porter. He bowed low and placed it reverently on the ground beside the grave. Then he took the drum and set it on its stand.

Pao Ching raised his hand. Once, twice, thrice, he beat the drum. The sonorous tone of the instrument crashed into the silence like the explosion of a gun. To Meng Liang it seemed as if the earth shook and the leaves of the trees trembled.

Pao Ching spoke then as his fingers stilled the reverberations of the face of the drum. “Dear brother, ” he said，“dear brother, once more I will sing for you. Listen to me, I pray. Alas, how different we are. You always liked to sing and to play. Music you loved as if it were your son, bat you never would play as a professional. I was different. I earned my living by the music we loved, and so we were divided. But was not that the only difference between us? I think so. M He paused and bowed respectfully. w〇h, elder brother, I know I shall never see you again, but please play for me once more. Play so I can hear your sweet music. Remember how we enjoyed singing together? We can still sing even though you are buried. For more than forty years we have been together, dear brother. Sometimes we quarreled, but we were always brothers. Now, never again can we quarrel, never again can we argue. The only thing I can do is sing, so once again I will sing for you, and you, elder brother, will play the accompaniment with your skillful fingers. M Pao Ching smote the drum again. Then he waited, his head tilted to one side, as if listening for the first notes of the stringed instrument. But the only sound the others could hear was the sighing of the wind in the trees. Lotus Charm put her handkerchief to her mouth to stifle her sobs. Mrs. Fang wept, Meng Liang coughed softly.

So Pao Ching sang the requiem to his brother, sang until he choked and his voice dried in his parched throat.

Then Meng Liang took his friend by the arm. “Come，Pao Ching, ” he advised. “Do not grieve so much. This is the end of life which must come to all humans. Today others are born, and more tomorrow. Life goes on. No one can stop us from dying; don’t grieve so much. Your brother lived a good life.

Pao Ching looked at him with gratitude in his hollowed eyes. “My brother was killed by the Japanese、” he corrected sadly. “I cannot avenge him, but I shall sing your songs more often and with a deeper understanding, and urge the people to fight against the invaders of our country ■
Meng Liang picked up the drum. He took Pao CKing5s arm. ^Come home and rest,he urged, but Pao Ching wanted to stay. Finally he turned and addressed the grave once more, **Goodbye, elder brother，” he said. “Rest well. When the war is over I will take you home to rest with your ancestors.，T The next day Meng Liang fetched the doctor to his friend.

Pao Ching was sick, a bad case of malaria. His life hung in the balance. The disease had taken advantage of his weakened condition and was racking him with pain. Mrs. Fang was drinking again, so it fell to Lotas Charm to act as nurse. And that was a new experience for her. She had never lived close to real sickness before. Her father looked vso ill that she wondered if he would die. She had never seen him with his face so gray, his eyes so hollow, and so weak that he could not sit up. There was death as well as birth and love, she reflected. Life was like the seasons of the year, and death could come like a storm in summer, as it had come to Uncle Fang. She, too, would die one day. The thought seemed remote and fantastic, for she was young and healthy. But Meng Liang had told her the same thing. Who could escape death? And what would she do if her father went to join his brother?

She loved her father more than ever. His life had to be saved. For days and nights she did not leave his bedside. Pao Ching had only to move and she was at hand with drugs or water. Sometimes Meng Liang came to keep her company. After her father, was not Mr. Meng truly the greatest person in the world?

During the long nights at her father's bedside Lotus Charm had plenty of time to reflect. She observed that the Fang household had changed since Uncle Fang had gone, that it had changed too because Phoenix Girl was no longer home. Her mother must have loved Uncle Fang deeply. Although she had quarreled with him fiercely when he was alive, now she would sit in her chair and weep silently, even when she was not drunk. And again the same old question came into her mind. Why did her mother not love her? There was the pattern and example of Mr. Meng. He had become her mother's trusted friend. How had he managed that?

Pao Ching had passed the crisis. One night when Lotus Charm tiptoed in to give him his medicine, she found him relaxed and smiling. His forehead was cool and the heavy sweating was gone. And soon he was talking to her, telling her his worries about Phoenix Girl. Why hadn*t she come to the funeral? Why hadn't her husband come? What was the matter with them both? Lx>tus Charm did her best to convince him that Phoenix Girl could take care of herself, but she knew that she had failed. Her father was worrying about his daughter. Lotus Charm was puzzled. Why did people worry when it was loo late? He should have wor~ ried earlier, and spared his daughter the unhappiness to which she had been subjected.

One morning when Pao Ching was convalescent Phoenix Girl arrived. She dropped a parcel she was carrying on the floor, and ran to greet her father. With her arms around him she wept and wept. Mrs. Fang heard the noise and came to see if .she could help. With clumsy motherly affection she pulled her daughter away from the sick man, and set her upright in a chair. Phoenix Girl stopped crying, but she couldn’t speak. She was like a limp doll. Mrs‘ Fang began to ask questions. Her daughter did not give any sign she had heard. After half an hour Mrs. Fang gave up. Finally Pao Ching said weakly, “Please, I am old and sick. This anxiety is hurting me. Tell me what has happened before I die."
“He doesn’t want me any more, that's all. He doesn't want me any more, ” Phoenix Girl burst out sharply. Mrs. Fang screamed. Pao Ching stared at her, stricken. Then as the shock of realization hit him, he collapsed back on his pillow.

aSo he doesn't want you, M roared Mrs. Fang, shaking her fist. **ril show him if he wants you or not, the miserable son of a bedbug. I’ll come back with you and fix him. If I don't fix him, call me a no-good old bitch. M
“But he，s gone, mother, M said Phoenix Girl.

Mrs. Fang regarded her daughter angrily- “You silly fool! So you let him go. He just said he didn’t want you any more and you let him walk out. What kind of girl are you? Stupid! You have rights. A married woman has rights.”
Phoenix Girl made no answer. To ease her boiling rage Mrs. Fang thumped into the next room and took a drink. This was terrible. Her daughter losing her husband after only a few weeks of marriage. And the girl was a good girl too, she could swear. If she had been loose, this could be expected, but Phoenix Girl was a virgin, as innocent as a babe. Was this punishment for the things she had done when she herself was young? She clenched her fat fists and bowed her tear-stained face. She had been around before she married Pao Ching. All singing girls were the same, but she had kept her daughter clean; and now what had happened. Her daughter thrown over by a lousy no-good sergeant. Her rage swelled till it seemed as if her heart would burst. That lousy no-gocxl son of a whore's backside. If she ever got hold of him she would kick him till he died in agony.

She stormed back to the living room, and under her sharp questioning Phoenix Girl told the grim story.

The villain, of course, was Commander Wang, the owner of many concubines, the war lord who had lusted after Lotus Charm. Commander Wang the great lover, who wanted every woman he saw.
“It was wonderful the first few days,” said Phoenix Girl. “My husband loved me as a man should love a woman. Our nights were heaven, our days full of happiness. But Commander Wang heard of the marriage. And he was jealous. He called my husband and said, *So you have gotten a wife for yourself, but you could not get me the singing girl I wanted. Blunderer and fool. I will fix you.J That's what he told my husband, and his anger is terrible. When he is angry everyone in the Wang mansion trembles, even old Madame Wang. And then the commander saw me, and he told my husband that he must share me with him. * After all, * he told my husband, ‘ she is just an entertainer’s daughter and they are loose as the gates of hell, so who will worry. Shell like it.Phoenix Girl began to cry. ^That's what my husband^ master said. He said I would like being shared by two men, that I was a born whore.”
Mrs. Fang snorted with rage. “Go on, tell us the rest.”
Phoenix Girl dried her tears and continued. She was worried, she said» because her husband never would tell her what he thought best to do. At times she thought he wanted her to have relations with his master; at others he seemed to be fiercely jealous. All that he would tell her was that Commander Wang was threatening to send him back to the army, to be a real sergeant again and live on soldier^ rations instead of on the good things produced by the Wang farms. And the day came when Commander Wang called at the Tao house, when the sergeant was away. He wasted no time, Phoenix Girl told her parents, and quickly tried to make love to her. But she resisted him.

When Sergeant Tao returned he was sure that his master had made love to his wife. When Phoenix Girl said she had been virtuous he taunted her with being a tart, ready to make love with anyone. The more Phoenix Girl protested her innocence the louder his abuse became. And every day the situation worsened as Commander Wang sent Tao away on long errands，and rushed over to the house to pay court to Phoenix Girl. What could she do, demanded Phoenix Girl of her parents. If she betrayed her husband she would be everlastingly unhappy. If she didn’t, he might lose his job, and whatever she did her husband would abuse her.

Every night when he came home from the long missions Sergeant Tao beat her thoroughly, although she assured him that she had not allowed his employer to have her. Sergeant Tao, of course, did not believe her. He would first beat her and then take his husbandly rights.

And then Commander Wang got impatient. To solve the problem he fired Sergeant Tao, and ordered him back to the army. The quicker the better.

Sergeant Tao told Phoenix Girl he wasn’t going back to camp. He was deserting. He packed a few things that night and prepared to slip out. Phoenix Girl did likewise，but he wasn’t taking her, he said. Certainly not. She replied that she would follow him wherever he went. Was that not a wife’s duty? Marry the cock and follow him; marry the dog and go where he goes. Sergeant Tao found that very amusing. He gave her a sound slap on the backside and flung her on the bed. Then he told her the news. He had been married to another woman, and had had several children. Their marriage didn’t even count. The best thing she could do was to go home to her mother and forget it all.

“The bastard，the low-born son of a diseased ...，” cried Mrs. Fang. No one else talked. Phoenix Girl began to cry. She regained control of herself long enough to say that Sergeant Tao had sold all her jewelry and everything she had of value. All that she had brought home was a baby that was already leaping in her belly.

Presently Pao Ching stirred from his coma. <4My elder broth- * er was right, ” he said slowly. “All entertainers are cursed.”
Lotus Charm took Phoenix Girl by the arm. “Come into my room and freshen up, M she suggested. “You’ll feel better with some powder and lipstick on.

Phoenix Girl smiled at her for the first time, and there was genuine affection in her regard- uHow right you are, dear little sister. It’s no good weeping over things that are past.”
19 Qj he Tangs wasted no time in trying to take advantage of Pao Ching’s sickness. They figured that because of Useless Fang's death Pao Ching and Lotus Charm would be short an accompanist. They wouJd either have to quit the stage altogether or have to join up with the Tangs to obtain the services of Little Liu* It looked as if the Tangs had all the cards. If the Fangs didn’t work, so much the better; the Tangs would have all the business and no competition. If Pao Ching and Lotus Charm joined up, the Tangs could make whatever terms they liked. They hustled back to Chungking in high spirits, their imaginary profits already in their pockets.

But conditions had changed in the provisional capital. There was a war going on. China was fighting for her life and the cost of the fighting was great. Military defeats have to be paid for, a people has to be fed, and there is always that internal war against greedy unpatriotic citizens, who hoard fcx^d and start a black market. The cost of living had risen a thousandfold, and the provisional government was at its wits5 end to stop the swiftly climbing spiral of inflation. People, it seemed, had too much money to spend, and the money was buying less every day. The problem was to stop the spending on frivolous luxuries and confine it to the needs of the day, the necessities of life. Free spending had to be halted. Someone in high office suggested putting a curb on the entertainment business. A new regulation was drawn up. For Chungking, the provisional capital, there were to be five legitimate theaters, four movie houses, and one drum-singing theater.

And the drum-singing theater allowed to operate belonged to the patriotic and distinguished drum singer, Pao Ching, now mourning the loss of his brother in South Warm Springs.

This was a severe blow to the Tangs. The prize of a theater without competition had seemed almost within their grasp. Now they were quite sure that Pao Ching had used influence in government circles to order their theater closed. That Pao Ching had rendered notable service to the government, did not occur to them. Mr. and Mrs. Tang hurried back to South Warm Springs to hurl abuse at the sick head of their old friend and benefactor.

Pao Ching was still sick in bed when they burst in. He listened with a sad tolerant smile on his face. Actually he was in no mood to care what they had on their minds. His fever was still troubling him, and he was too tired even to argue. With half-open eyes he lay propped up on the pillows watching his unwelcome visitors. Fourth Master was grimacing with furious gestures. But Pao Ching looked at them and sadly shook his pale face. “My friends, ” he appealed in a weak voice，“I am a sick man. I have not left my bed since my brother^ death. How could I do you harm? Please consider my situation for once. My brother is dead, my daughter has left her husband, and my heart is so weary that I do not want ever to sing again. How could I make troubld for you?”
Fourth Master looked at his wife. Fat Mrs. Tang’s face wore a mixed expression of simpering smile and wicked frown. She stared at her husband for an instant, and then nodded her head ever so slightly. This was the sign to change tactics.

Immediately Fourth Master Tang buttered his voice with unctuous concern. “But，my dear friend，” he asked, “if you don’t sing，what will happen to the others? Little Liu is counting on working with you and Lotus Charm again. That is all he talks about. So please think of him and our daughter. You cannot let them starve ■
“And what about us?” burst in Mrs. Tang. “We have to live. We have no money. The cost of living is mounting. You can’t leave us in the lurch like this.”
Pao Ching shrugged his shoulders. “All night，” he promised, “I’ll get in touch with you when I’m better.”
They went out like whipped dogs. When they had gone Pao Ching began to weep. **You were right, my big brother, " he said to himself. “Entertainers are cheap. So cheap.”
And then as in a dream he saw the miserable face of Phoenix Girl as she struggled with the household chores. Why hadn’t he the strength of mind to chuck the entertainment business, to get out and go into something respectable? There was his daughter — cheated in marriage and thrown out like a soiled plaything because her father was in show business. It was cruel, it was unjust, but it was a fact. That was the reward he got from society. He sighed. He had never done anything wrong. Always he had tried to conduct himself along good moral lines, he had even thought of founding a school to teach others the art of drum singing, to perpetuate his name.

And now he was broke. All his spare money had gone on Useless Fang^ funeral. His daughter's marriage had been costly, and then his illness. All the money was gone, even his few savings. And the cost of living was flying high like a kite. There was nothing to do but to work.

Thereupon he got out of bed, and decided that he was better. There was no time to be lost. He was better. He could stand up, he could walk about, and he could think. No longer had he time to be sick. A week later he was in Chungking, and there he found everything twice as high as it had been. Inflation had tripled salaries, and since no one could live on his salary, everyone wanted a tip. Hands were out for everything. Pao Ching couldn^ get by any longer with talking and smiling. It was the season of the big pay-out.

But business was good. It seemed as if the people, knowing their money was worth nothing, wanted to get as much as it was worth, as quickly as possible. No one thought of saving. Spend, spend all this useless stuff.

Pao Ching had changed. He was happy singing and manag-

ing the theater, but he could not smile any more. At any idle moment in his day he would find his thoughts going back to brood over the death of his brother. He was sure that he had brought Useless Fang bad luck. He had insisted on earning a living in the show business, although Useless Fang had always objected. And his poor lonely deserted daughter. Now, in her misery she was turning to her mother, who was more often drunk than not.

Pao Ching felt that it was his duty to help Phoenix Girl. He did everything he could to make her happy, paying her more attention than ever before. She was worse than a widow, an unfortunate. What would the future bring her? Thinking of that drove him to a frenzy of exasperation. He would sit and sweat with worry. How could he find her another husband, after she had failed so miserably with the first? With his mind worrying on these problems he took to buying her little presents — candy and finery — giving her one of everything he had been accustomed to buy for Lotus Charm through the years.

Of the Tangs they saw nothing. Jeweled Lute turned up for work and left immediately after her act. She did not mention her parents. Little Liu played the accompaniments and went home in silence. Pao Ching worried about this. It could only mean, that the Tangs were thinking up some new deviltry. But he was too tired to exercise his brain imagining what they might be doing. Let them try anything, he decided wearily, they are always trying something. He seemed to be living from day to day. Often he would repeat the old saying to comfort himself； uYou put on your shoes today, but you are not sure you will be wearing them tomorrow. ''
One afternoon Little Liu asked Pao Ching if he would take tea with him at a tea shop. Pao Ching accepted. What was wrong with Little Liu? Normally he was sickly pale, now he was flushed and animated. He had been drinking. Well, that was better than opium.

Pao Ching sat waiting for Little Liu to talk. But instead Little Liu stared at the huge colored posters on the walls： “Don’t Talk Politics.” He sipped his tea，and still didn’t talk. Pao Ching became anxious. And Little Liu*s face was getting redder all the time.
“So，younger brother/’ Pao Ching finally demanded, “what is on your mind?”
Little Liu gave him a desperate look. His thin face became pale again, the corners of his sensitive mouth downturned with pain.
“I cannot go on any more, ” he announced with bitter finality. “I can’t go on.”
Pao Ching looked innocent. “What do you mean, my brother? I don't understand.5，

Little Liu’s eyes were hot, and his voice was bitter, “I may be an entertainer, but I have my self-respect. I can!t go on living with Jeweled Lute, knowing that she sleeps with any man who comes along. It’s too much，I tell you. I thought I could overlook it, but I was wrong. I thought we would get along wonderfully. When we were married I would play and she could sing, and we would be happy. And I thought that marriage would stop her be-ing promiscuous, but you know what her parents have been doing? They have been encouraging her to keep me company, and also to take her calls at the same time. And I can't take it. When I mention marriage they just smile and ask if I think I could sup-

port her. Support her — why, I give them most of the money I make for the privilege of being her boy friend. And when I ask Jeweled Lute to be faithful to me, she just looks at me and says, 'Why be jealous? One man is like another,' What can I Little Liu bowed his head, and added almost under his breath, 4tAnd I thought she did it because her parents made her. That’s not true. She likes it. She’s a born whore.”
UA woman needs only a beginning,commented Pao Ching for want of anything better to say.

Little Liu coughed. Presently he said in a hard determined tone, “Well，they used her as bait for me last time. You know, they would not let me play for you. They made me promise, and I did. I failed you, although you were so good to me. Now they have another idea. They are proposing to leave you high and dry, and go to Kunming, where they are told business is good. The city is full, and there is no theater. And they want me to go with them. But I will not go. I won’t go! ”
“If you don’t go Jeweled Lute won’t be abie to sing，”said Pao Ching without any show of what was going on in his mind. “They’ll make you go,
“Elder brother, that is why I am here to ask your advice. I want you to help me. HereJs the truth. I am not officially married to Jeweled Lute, and I can cut off relations with her, just like that. M He snapped his long thin fingers. “When I am free of her， the Tangs can do nothing. I shall not be under their thumb any more. So, elder brother, this is my idea. n Little Liu paused and his face bacame red.
“Go on，what is it?”
“I hope you will not be angry with me.”

“How can I say if I don’t know what’s on your mind?” “Elder brother.” Little Liu stared at his teacup. uIf I was officially married to someone else, I wouldn’t have to live with the Tangs any more, and they would have no hold on me.T，
“Correct，sounds like a good idea.”
“Thank you. Now suppose ... ”
“Suppose what?”
“I cannot say it.”
"Please proceed. We are brothers and friends.”
“Well，I ... I thought that I might marry that elder daughter of yours. ^
Pao Ching was stunned. He felt as if he had been pushed into an ice cold brook. “But we are sworn brothers, Little Liu, I don’t see how.”
“I am more than ten years younger than you, ” countered Little Liu. *4And I respect you. I have thought this all out. Your eldest daughter is pleasant and simple. I wouldn’t do her any harm. I like her. In fact, I always wanted to marry her, but I never had the courage to ask you. I always felt you didn’t want her to marry into the show business, particularly not to a mere accompanist .Now 1 want to marry your daughter. She is unhappy.

I will make her happy, ril stop opium smoking, and I will become an upright person. After all, Pao Ching, we are in the same profession. That's better — I mean it's better she should marry me than someone outside the profession. ^
Pao Ching couldn't answer for a while. Here it was again. The vicious circle. An entertainer marrying an entertainer’s daughter and producing more unfortunates. And this little man who had been fornicating with Jeweled Lute, who had double-

crossed him to get his fun in bed, wanted to marry Phoenix Girl. Could he ask his daughter to do that? He shook his head. Something Useless Fang had said came into his mind, u〇ne entertainer in a generation, and three generations will suffer.

He spoke out loud without being aware of it. Little Liu stared at him stupidly. To Pao Ching he was like a little white dog waiting for a morsel from its master’s table.
“I’ll talk it over with the family, ” Pao Ching said.

Little Liu smiled. **Better hurry. The Tangs want me to leave with them this week.”
Pao Ching cursed him. The little turtle was forcing his hand. How low could a man be? He was about to make some tact-ful remark when Little Liu said boldly, “If you don’t agree I shall have to go to Kunming with them.”
Pao Ching wanted to shout at him angrily. No friendship, no loyalty. Their relations were like a game of chess. And after all he had done for Little Liu. What kind of world was this? WasnJt anyone clean and honest?

But he kept his face smooth and bland. Why show Little Liu he was annoyed? And if the accompanist did go off with the Tangs, then he would be stuck.

That night he talked the matter over with his wife. Did she object to her daughter marrying an entertainer? Why, no. And if it didn't turn out right, would she be to blame? Why, no. She had no objection, but she used the conversation as an excuse to have a few swigs of wine.

Pao Ching discuvssed the subject with Phoenix Girl. She listened coldly, without any show of emotion. There was no blush on her cheek, and her eyes were calm and placid. It seemed to Pao Ching that she was interested in trying marriage again.
**But he did not give me a divorce, M she said.
“He didn’t have to. He was married before. If he dared to come back I would sue him for polygamy, ” said Pao Ching sternly.
“All right，father, do what you think is right. I am ready.”
Pao Ching felt sick. His daughter was ready, with one manJs baby in her belly, to jump into another man's bed because her father had suggested ii. Hot shame veiled his mind for a moment, and then he realized how much he loved his brother, and why. It was because his brother had been the only person in his family with ideals. The rest of them were all bound by money. Phoenix Girl didn't object to marrying Little Liu because it would help her father and mother to eat. Pao Ching laughed.

Phoenix Girl asked，“Why are you laughing at me?”
“I wasn’t,” he said half in truth. uYou are a good child. You know how to take care of your father. All honor to you. M So the marriage was decided-
Lotus Charm was horrified. Since Phoenix Girl had first come home she had tried to comfort her and build up a close friendship. Now she withdrew into herself. If her sister married Little Liu without loving him, why, then, her relations with him would be the same as with Jeweled Lute. She was acting as a prostitute. And how could her father arrange such a marriage? He had failed in her estimation. He wasn’t selling his daughter，but he was giving her away in exchange for an accompanist. He was using Phoenix Girl for his own convenience. It was the same as selling her.
“Elder sister, ” she asked Phoenix Girl, “how can you be so placid and allow father to arrange your life for you?”
“What would happen to me if I didn’t?”
Lotus Charm shook her head in rebellion. Her eyes flashed with anger. wTd rather steal a man than be given to one. You are being pulled in all directions like a puppet.”
“Don’t you dare say that，” flashed Phoenix Girl. “I wouldn't do such a shameful thing as stealing a man. You may think I am weak and helpless, but I am not. I have a mind of my own. That's why I am agreeing to this marriage. But I have to have father’s blessing. Without it I can do nothing. I am starting again, and I want to. For me, marrying Little Liu is like putting a clean tablecloth over a soiled table.

Lotus Charm was silent at that. She was wondering how people could have such different viewpoints as her sister and Mr. Meng. After a while she said to her sister： “Sister，if Little Liu also beatvS you, let me know. I will fight him for you! **
The Tangs were furious. Jeweled Lute was livid with rage. Deep in her heart she liked Little Liu. Playing around with other men for money was amusing, but it was nice to have a steady bedfellow to come home to. He was at least clean and kind. The other men were all kinds, fat and cruel, dirty and ugly, but if they had money she was theirs for an hour. Always she had felt that sooner or later she and Little Liu could be really happy. Her attitude toward him was motherly. She liked to pet and fondle him, and do little things for his comfort, and it was nice to have him always at hand for her pleasure. They quarreled, of course, but always it would be Jeweled Lute who would end it by getting him to bed and saying, “Now，baby, don’t be angry. Mama will play with you.yy Now the dream wavS shattered. Jeweled Lute decided she was going to fight. She would go and have it out with Phoenix Girl, and she would stop at nothing.

The Fangs were at lunch when Jeweled Lute stormed in. Her hair was streaming down her back. Her face was drawn and livid. She forgot her intention of having it out with Phoenix Girl the moment she entered and saw Pao Ching. She shook her fist at him and shrieked, “Come outside，Pao Ching. I have something to settle with you — you.”
Pao Ching went on eating. Phoenix Girl guessed what Jeweled Lute wanted, but she did not look in her direction. Pao Ching was thinking as he munched his food, “It would be silly to get mixed up with Jeweled Lute in a quarrel. ^ She was a women, and a tough one at that. Woman should deal with women. He looked at his wife. Mrs. Fang was obviously angry. Slowly she got up from the table and waddled across to Jeweled Lute, her fat elbows moving with tremendous power, as if she was going to crush the girl. Her eyes were large and bright, and there was a hard smile on her face.
“And what do you want，Jeweled Lute?” she inquired，halting a few yards from the disheveled angry girl. Jeweled Lute could read the signs. She took a step backward, one hand on her throat. Before she could say anything Mrs. Fang had delivered her proposition. No furious blast of foul language which Jeweled Lute had expected, and was ready to counter^ no storm of accusations, no threats. 4<You know, Jeweled Lute, ^ Mrs. Fang said in a soft firm voice, “if you want to go on working for us，you had better watch your step. Why don't you quit the hysterics and be serious? You donJt have to work with us if you don^ want to. We can get along without you, but if you want a job here, there it is. Now what do you say?”
Jeweled Lute had come to have a fight with the Fangs. Instead Mrs. Fang was talking business to her. Nothing would be changed except that she wouldn’t go home with Little Liu. Mrs. Fang was right, but Jeweled Lute had to save face. So she began. She called Pao Ching, Phoenix Girl, and Little Liu foul names. Mrs. Fang replied with even worse — words so bad that Jeweled Lute felt she had to start all over again. Then she left, having made it clear to Mrs. Fang that she was coming to work as usual and that what Little Liu wanted to do with his spare time didn’t concern her.

Lotus Charm was shocked. She had never heard such a collection of swear words as those used by her mother and Jeweled Lute, and they were all connected with marriage and with men and women^ anatomy. What did they all mean? She had always looked on love as pure and romantic. But her mother and Jeweled Lute had put it on the lowest level, and her father hadn’t said a word. As if he was accustomed to this, as if he agreed.

She looked at her father and then at her sister. Poor things. They had decided on this marriage to benefit the Fang business and provide Phoenix Girl with a husband, and they would go through with it at all cost. Custom allowed it, and convention blessed it. Her sister was not an entertainer, and she was not a loose woman, so she would have some kind of social status as a married woman. But Lotus Charm could not shake off the impression that Phoenix Girl was like a poor little dog, chained by the neck. She could be kicked and spat upon, but she would be considered a g(X)d woman because she was married with her father's blessing. Her young brows creased. What was her own fate going to be? She shuddered to think, and ran from the room to cry in her bedroom.

Mrs. Fang poured herself a long drink. She was flushed with victory. Everything was satisfactory. She had wanted to give that diseased little trollop, Jeweled Lute, a bit of her mind for a long time. Now she had relieved herself of every word she had wanted to say, every foul epithet she had ever heard, and she felt relaxed. She sat in her chair mumbling over a few of the choicest epithets. My, but that little whore had got an earful, and she would give old lady Tang the same if she ever came round.

20
⑶ ao Ching’s next problem was to find a house for the bride and bridegroom — to find a house in a bombed-out city where anyone was glad to pay a fortune to live in a cave, where government workers slept on their desks in their offices because there wasn^t a room to be had.

But difficulty was a challenge to Pao Ching. He talked and smiled, searched and persuaded, pleaded and bribed. The result was a dilapidated house that had been bombed, which someone seemed to have overlooked. It had no sunlight, many holes in the walls, and a lot of rats, but h was a house. Pao Ching persuaded three workmen to block up the holes, and the couple having duly registered their marriage in the appropriate modem form, moved in. Phoenix Girl had a house, Pao Ching an accompanist, and the troupe was making money. What couid be better?

Yes, Pao Ching had a real treasure in his son-in-law. But his victory over the Tangs had a bitter taste. Every time he thought of having tossed his loving and dutiful daughter into the arms of Little Liu, he shuddered with shame. He had always considered himself a cut higher in morals than the Tangs, but here he was doing much the same thing.

Jeweled Lute was now the model of professional conduct. She always arrived on time, sang her numbers and went home. She did not fight any more. Her losing Little Liu seemed to have matured her, and on more than one occasion Pao Ching was sure that he read reproach in her large liquid eyes. To Pao Ching it was as if she were saying, “So I’m cheap. Fm a whore. That’s what you think. Your sweet little daughter is now sleeping with the man that the whore got tired of. Ha! Ha! M Pao Ching burned with shame.

Phoenix Girl was spoke less and less. She came to see her mother regularly and stayed a little while. She was mousier than ever, a drab little thing without expression on her face. Pao Ching hated to see her this way, but he knew it was his doing. He alone could read the thoughts on that vacant expressionless face. For him, Phoenix Girl was forever saying silently, MWell, I am a good girl, I did as I was told. Don't worry whether Fm happy. I shall never say what I really think. I，ll keep it to myself. I always obey.”
His mind became morbid with self-reproach. He decided to keep a closer eye on Lotus Charm. She might be cheating. He was convinced that even with her, he was losing the closeness that he treasured. How to win her back, how to restore their re-

lationship to what he considered nomal between father and daughter? He took walks down town to buy gifts. She accepted them as always, with a bright smile of thanks, and then forgot them.

There were times when he found himself staring at her and wondering. Was she still innocent? She was growing so fast, and were not all women the same? Of late she seemed to have developed astonishingly. Her bosom was much larger. Her face was thinning out and her expression was more intense. Doubts grew within him. Was she worrying about something? Was her heart with a secret lover? Had some man already known her? There were times when she looked like a strange woman. At others she was a little girl with pigtails. He found her provoking, and at the sametimealarming.

He thought of taking the matter up with his wife. So desper-ate was he at times that he was near to asking Mrs _ Fang to take care of Lotus Charm and give her the motherly guidance he could not supply. But reason held him back. Mrs. Fang would laugh in his face. And now that Phoenix Girfs pregnancy was beginning to show, Mrs. Fang was lavishing all her mother love on her daughter, hoping passionately for a grandson. If it were a boy she would not need to go to an orphanage to adopt one. Better to have her own grandson in the house than a little bastard no one knew. With this on her mind, and plenty to drink, Mrs. Fang had no time for Lotus Charm, however large her bosom became.

Pao Ching was sure that even Lotus Charm’s singing had changed. Now when she sang love songs she gave them depth and color, as if she understood what she was singing. And then, by way of being completely perverse, on certain nights she sang like a parrot, without feeling or emotion. That was how she had al-

ways sung before, he remembered, but why was she so unpredictable? Perhaps when she sang like a parrot she had had a tiff with her lover.

One day he met an usher of a neighborhood movie house in a tea shop. The man was ingratiating and gossipy. He made it plain that he expected Pao Ching to treat him. Pao Ching did, and the usher confided his news. Lotus Charm liked the movies very much. She came often, and the usher knowing Fang as he did, always let her in free. That gave Pao Ching a new worry. Lotus Charm usually told her mother that she was going to see Phoenix Girl, but instead she went to a movie. He questioned the man cautiously. The usher was sure. His daughter was always alone. Well, Pao Ching decided, it was a harmless deception, she was safe in the motion picture house. But if she could tell lies of this sort now, what would she do when she really wanted to get away by herself for another purpose?

Half jokingly, he said to Lotus Charm, “I’ve discovered one of your secrets. You’ve been to the
“To the movies, ” she supplied. “It’s good for my education.

I can read almost all of the words on the screen now. Our own language only, of course. The foreigners write their words across, not up and down.She looked at him inquisitively and went on, ** I am going to study a foreign language one day, like Teacher Meng. I want to know both Chinese and English. M Pao Ching made no comment. Instead he said sternly, uLotus Charm, when you want to go to a movie, don't go alone. Ask me. I would like to come with you.”
When Lotus Charm met her mother a few minutes later she announced that she was going to see Phoenix Girl — and then went straight to the movie house. She had reached a stage in her development where motion pictures opened up a new world. It was wonderful to be sitting in the half light watching the exciting love stories on the screen. Some were Chinese, some American. They were new gospel to her, the message of love between man and woman. She was beginning to understand that love was essential to life, that it was nothing to be ashamed of. For a woman not to be loved was shame; for a woman to snare a husband was a matter of pride. If this was wrong, she asked herself, why did the movie people in China and America spend so much money making love stories? And had not Teacher Meng said much the same thing; that a woman should fight for freedom in love, just as American girls did in the films?

Some of the girls reminded her of Jeweled Lute. Those half-naked girls in the American films, the night club entertainers, sat on men’s laps, sang and danced for the men, and kissed them in public. Obviously the girls enjoyed it, because they smiled and laughed, and the men paid them well. That was one form of love, and it was interesting. Perhaps Jeweled Lute was not so bad after all; at least, she did not do such things in public. She began to see Jeweled Lute in a new light. Jeweled Lute was having fun, doing what the Hollywood stars were doing, but she ... She looked at herself mentally. She was just a gray unimportant little nobody, who wasn’t brave enough to have fun. Only brave enough to sit and watch love in a movie house, against her father's wishes.

And Phoenix Girl had her points, too. No wonder she was eager to get married. A woman could really have fun only when she was with a man. The couple on the screen kissed in close-up-

The sight of their lips meeting sent warm pangs of frustration throbbing inside Lotus Charm’s young body. And Phoenix Girl had said she got married merely because her parents wanted her to. What utter nonsense! Phoenix Girl married to get all this, and more. She was angry at Phoenix Girl. Jeweled Lute had at least been honest. Phoenix Girl was so sly and cunning. That quiet little face, looking so good, and all the time she was enjoying marriage.

Lotus Charm went home to her room. The movie had unsettled her. She wanted to be modern and free as the women on the screen. She took off her dress and sat down on the bed, her bare legs widespread. This was the modern attitude. A few months ago she would not have dared take such liberties even when she was alone. But now it made her feel good, to lie back on the bed, with one leg flat and the other bent at the knee. Freedom, liberty, being grown-up.

Then she sat up. With brush and pap>er she began to write a letter to an imaginary lover. To be modern, she must have a boy friend. Who it was, did not matter. She had so much to tell him. She touched the brush to the ink pad. Her mother did not love her. Her sister was married. She was alone in a world of her own. She must have a lover.

Who was her lover? Why, there was Mr. Meng. Teacher Meng, the mortal with a mind, the user of beautiful words; Tllcher Meng, who had given her the power to write. Teacher Meng, she wrote. No, that was wrong. How could a girl address a lover as teacher? But what else could she call him? Other words for lover sounded cheap and undignified. Teacher Meng，she felt， would be dignified even in the most passionate of love scenes. So let it go. “Teacher Meng …Will anyone ever love a girl like me? Will some man take me and awake me to Love?T，Now what to write. The thoughts were there, but not the words. Her words sounded improper all at once. She stared at the paper. Everything that troubled her was written in those two sentences.

Then she looked up. Teacher Meng was standing at her elbow, She sat looking up at him, her bare legs sprawled, her bare shoulders showing above her slip. In her hand was the piece of paper — the love letter. Suddenly she blushed and drew in her legs.
“What are you doing, little pupil?^ inquired Teacher Meng.

Ujust writing a letter, M she said. Quickly she put on her dress.
**Excellent* But who is the letter to?M She smiled and hid the paper. “Just to someone.”
“Let me see it.” He put out his hand. "There may be some errors.”
She dropped her eyes and handed it to him. She heard him chuckle and looked up sharply.
“Why a letter to me，Lotus Charm?” he asked.
“Oh，it was just fun ... ’，
He read, and raised his eyebrows. “     ‘ A girl like me? ’
What does that mean, Lotus Charm?
“It’s what I wanted to ask you,” she said. She was never shy with Teacher Meng. With him she could ask anything. **I want to know if a man will ever love a girl of my class.”
He laughed, tossing his thin face. “Oh, Lotus Charm, ” he exclaimed enthusiastically, iChow you have changed. How you have grown mentally and physically. I can answer this only by saying that if you want to improve yourself, if you are determined to study hard, you can be like any other moderen girl and find a man to love you. You will be happy then, as happy as any other woman. If you don’t work hard you may find love，but you won’t be happy because you will not have improved your mind. You can read a little now, you must read more. You need to go to school, to associate with modern girls and learn things they learn. M
“I，go to school? Where? My father would never allow that.”
uril talk to him. I think I can persuade him. He loves you in his old-fashioned way, and I think he will understand that education is for your good.

After the lesson Mr. Meng found Pao Ching alone. And Pao Ching was delighted to see him. Of all the men he knew, Meng Liang was the only one he really appreciated, the only one who could fill the gap left by Useless Fang's death.

Meng Liang came quickly to the point. uYou must do something about Lotus Charm, elder brother, M he said. <(She is getting older now, and is at a dangerous age. She knows something, but not enough. She has no mother, and few friends. Since Phoenix Girl married she has no girl friend near her own age. It would be easy for her to get into trouble, to meet bad company and be corrupted. It can all happen so quickly.

Pao Ching looked at Meng Liang with the admiration he might have bestowed on a beneficent god. How did he know what was on his mind， day and night? What a wonderful heart he must have.

uMy dear friend, that is just what I was going to talk to you about. I have been desperately worried ever since Phoenix Girl was married. At all costs I must protect Lotus Charm, but I am at my wit's end. How shall I protect her? I have always said that you are the only living soul with whom I could discuss the maUer， and not be laughed at.”
Meng Liang looked Pao Ching squarely in the eye. He said with slow precision, “You have decided finally that you are not going to sell her?'*
uCertainly. I want her to help me for a few more years, and then I want to marry her to a fine young man. M Meng Liang scoffed. uYou really mean you are not going to sell her for money, but you are going to find some young man of whom you approve, and marry her to him. Haven't you forgotten something?”
“What have I forgotten?” Pao Ching was half amused.
“Love — the affection of two people for each other."
uLove? What is that? You mean that kind of vulgar exhibition you see in the movies? The thing that makes young people marry one day and divorce the next? We can do without that.
“You don’t approve of love，eh?”
Pao Ching hesitated. He did not want to offend Meng Liang. Meng Liang belonged to the theater, and his ideas were not the ideas of a respectable middle-class person. He decided to listen, rather than express his own opinion.
“I know you don’t approve of marriage by personal choice; because you don^ understand what love between man and woman really means,” began Meng Liang. “But you should try. Don’t forget we are living in a modern age today, and we must keep up with the times. Love may not concern you or me, but it is more important than food to the younger generation. It is life itself. No one can stop these young creatures, now they have gained the knowledge that love is really important. You cannot stop them, and you should not try. As her father, I suppose you can use your authority to marry off Lotus Charm, but what good would that do?” Meng Liang paused and watched Pao Ching carefully. “Well, it*s a step in the right direction that you have decided not to sell her, but it is not enough. Why don't you do the big thing ~ give her complete freedom, and the education to make good use of it. Give her the same chance as any other modem girl.M Pao Ching was stunned. Meng Liang's tone was accusing him, and he felt that the accusation was unjust. He felt that not to have sold Lotus Charm as a concubine was revolutionary in show business. And he was proud of himself for having decided to marry her off to a decent young man. Wasn’t that enough? Yet Meng Liang was talking of the girl falling in love of her own ac-cord and choosing a man for herself. Freedom in love to Pao Ching meant only one thing-the profession of Jeweled Lute. The only difference was that professionals made money and these others didn't. His face turned red as he thought of it.
“I understand your difficulties，” consoled Meng Liang. “It is hard for a man to change his way of thinking in a flash. The conventions of generations cannot be cast off in a minute. ^
“I am not conservative, ” announced Pao Ching firmly. “But I am not too modem either. I take the middle of the road.”
Meng Liang nodded. “Now let me ask you this. Since your wife doesn’t care about this girl, she wonJt keep an eye on her. And you, as a professional man, cannot shadow her all day. If she ran away one day, what would you do?”
“She’s already been to the movies alone without telling me_ ”

“That’s just it. And it’s your fault，my friend. You won’t let her associate with other girl singers because you are afraid they will corrupt her. She has no friends, no social life, no experience. She is a prisoner of your old-fashioned ideas. What are you going to do? She is in danger now of being bored and running off to find excitement. Your duty to her is to let her meet the world as a re^ spectable human being and learn from experience how to live. She won't run away if she has proper friends and an interesting life. M ^What can I do?M demanded Pao Ching. uSend her to school. What she learns there doesn't matter so much, but she'll meet other girls, make friends with them, and learn how to mix with people. She’d be a person.”
“Isn’t what you are teaching her enough?”
“No, it isn’t，and besides I cannot keep on. I may have to move off at any moment.”
Pao Ching was puzzled. u Why — what do you mean? Why would you have to move?"
“Because my life is in danger. My security is threatened.”
“I don’t understand. Who would kill you? Who threatens you?” Pao Ching had forgotten Lotus Charm’s problem. He was unhappy at the prospect of losing his friend.

Meng Liang laughed. UI haven't done anything, and no one has done anything to me — yet. But I am a liberal, and my ideas are always clashing with the government's conservative policy, and our leaders’ desire to hold on to feudal power.”
UI donH understand. What has feudal power to do with your going away?”
The dramatist shook his head. His eyes flecked with amusement. “You see，you don’t know what is happening outside your immediate sphere. Modern times have passed over your head. My friend, this war of resistance which China is fighting against the Japanese is not a simple matter. It is complicated. We have a war inside as well as outside China. The conflict between new ideas and old ideas has not lessened because of the war. China is a republic, but feudalism still remains. We are fighting two wars now, one that started forty years ago, the other the latest skirmish with the invader. Who can say which is the more important. I am a playwright. My duty is to present new ideals, new ideas, new methods, new ethics. And the new clashes with the old, so I have offended the old crumbling system, that still has teeth enough to destroy. The government is watching the theater. Some of our people have already been arrested for being too liberal. The administration does not like the progressives. Everything I have written bears my name. Sooner or later they will catch up with me. I shall be arrested or murdered, for never will I surrender my right to free speech.”
Pao Ching laid his hand on the poet's shoulder. “Please don’t worry, my friend. If you are ever arrested I know important people who would release you. M Meng Liang laughed loudly. uMy dear second elder brother, don’t be so provincial. Your way of helping, well meaning as it is, would never fit my case. I am a lost soul. Today I could become a government official if I wished. I could have money and power, such power as you might never dream of. But I refuse it. I do not want their money. I want to be allowed to speak freely. In some respects what is happening to Lotus Charm is happening to me. She and I are both fighting for something you will never understand. And let me tell you this, my dear friend. You had better stop singing those lyrics I wrote for you. I tried not to put any radical phrases in them, because I did not want you to get into trouble, but they are still progressive and inspiring, because they call to youth. The old guard is anxious now about its future. It is one thing to make the people fight for China, another to reward them for their blcxxl and tears. All that our leaders expect is that we praise them in the old way, that we consider them as saints and obey them blindly.”
Pao Ching shook his head. “I confess I don’t know what this is all about _
^Neither do you understand about Lotus Charm. But I understand you and your wife, because I was like you once. I have learned the hard way. I have gone forward with the times, while you and your wife have stood still. Perhaps I have been leading the times and you have allowed the times to lead you. I understand Lotus Charm, and you don't. That is clear, my friend. So this is what I say. Give her a chance. I shall give you a letter introducing her to the head of a girl's preparatory school. If you wish, she can go there and have a chance in life. If you do not, she can remain forever a slave. I cannot force you.” Meng Liang picked up his hat. “But remember，my friend, remember these last words — in case we never meet again. If you don’t give her freedom, she may take it and meet disaster. If you give it to her, she may still run wild, but you will not be responsible. Many people have been sacrificed to new ideals, and she is no exception. But I think it better to be sacrificed to a new ideal than to an old oneHe walked to the door. “I am going now. Who knows when we shall meet again. My gcxxl friend, my good second elder brother，good-bye.” Then he turned and fled» as if all the devils of reaction were chasing him.

21 zj fter Meng Liang had gone, Pao Ching sat like a man stunned. Another loss. First, his beloved brother, and then his best friend — the person he respected most in the world. The brilliant, friendly, and understanding Meng Liang. But why had he gone? That he could not grasp. And his lack of comprehension made him unhappy. It was as if Meng Liang had given him a mere glimpse of the outside world, and left him in darkest ignorance.

How did Meng Liang differ from himself? He began to compare his life with that of Lotus Charm's teacher. Point by point he reviewed their characteristics and behavior. He saw his own duplicity in dealing with people. His diplomacy, his flattery, and his finagling seemed suddenly cheap. Meng Liang was bold and straightforward. He spoke facts right to the face, instead of approaching a subject in a roundabout way. And Pao Ching saw himself as a weak person ready to curry favor with the masses.

Pao Ching stood up suddenly. He put the letter Meng Liang had given him in his pocket and hurried out into the street. He would be devious no more. He was going to look at the school. If he liked it, Lotus Charm would start her studies right away. No more delays. Meng Liang was right. If a thing was to be done, it had to be done properly. Yes, he would do his best for Lotus Charm, do everything that was necessary, and give her the chance to make good. If she failed it would be her fault. He walked faster, his face lit, his heart beating with excitement, as if he himself were about to start a new life.

He found the school in the courtyard of a huge house on top of the hill. It had only three classrooms. Its principal was an old lady who had opened it as an academy for grown-up girls who wanted education and for those who had missed their schooling because of the evacuation.

She listened to him with polite deference. Pao Ching kept nothing back. He told her about his profession and why he wanted Lotus Charm to acquire an education. He stressed particularly his daughter^ lowly status. The old school teacher quickly made it plain that she had no objection. Everyone, she said, should have the right to go to school, and she would be delighted to have Ix)tus Charm as a student. She thought it best for Louts Charm to start with three courses — Chinese language, history, and mathematics. That would take only three hours a day. Then later, if Lotus Charm preferred, she could take up cooking, embroidery, and domestic science, all useful for a girl contemplating a good marriage. For these courses there was no set schedule, the teacher explained, and hLs daughter could practice them at home.

She explained that most of her young ladies took the regular courses as well as domestic science because they wanted their education to match up to their husbands. aTimes have changed, " she said with a sad smile. uAn illiterate girl cannot hope to get married, no matter how pretty she is. Not to the right type of man. ^
Her words opened Pao Ching's darkened mind like a key. She was saying in other words the same thing as Meng Liang. Times had changed. A girl without talents was no longer a bless-

ing, but a liability. To get a husband a girl had to be literate.

The price of the tuition shook him a trifle. It was fabulous, but he paid it willingly. Anything so that Lotus Charm might receive an education and associate with girls of good station. He had almost forgotten Meng Liang’s letter. When he showed it to the old teacher she was immensely pleased. “Mr. Meng is a man of knowledge and vision. He has outstripped us all. Twenty years ago I was like that, but I cannot keep up with him any longer. M Pao Ching took Lotus Charm to school the next day.

Lotus Charm was wearing a simple blue dress. No make-up or lipstick. She was carrying her books and brushes in a white cloth bag under her arm.

The moment they were outside the door, Pao Ching asked, “Would you like to take a rickshaw?”
Lotus Charm lifted her head high, her eyes bright, and said smilingly, **No, thank you, father. Td like to walk, to let the people in Glurngking see that I’ve become a frugal student.”
Pao Ching did not say anything. He was pleased to see Lx>tus Charm so happy.

After a short distance, Lotus Charm lowered her head and said, ''Father, let*s take a rickshaw. I donH know why, my legs feel weak. ^
But when Pao Ching was about to call for a rickshaw, she lifted her head again and said, uNo, father. I don’t think I’ll take a rickshaw. I must practice walking. I won't spend my money in carfares. I won’t ride a rickshaw even when it rains.”
(<What if it is thundering?** Pao Ching asked. uni use my hands to cover my ears.M She smiled mischievously.

Lotus Charm did not seem able to concentrate. She talked about whatever came to her mind. “Father，didn't you say that you want to open up a school for entertainers? Please wait， father. When I graduate, I'll teach for you. Maybe someday I too will be able to write new lyrics as good as Teacher Meng’s.” “You?” Pao Ching deliberately teased. He was happy.
“Yes，I,7> Lotus Charm replied, straightening her back. “I have intelligence. I am a drum singer, but I shall be a student as well. I am a rather special girl among drum singers- M When they came to the foot of the hill, Pao Ching wanted to walk up with her. But she stopped him. “Father,” she said, uy〇u stand here and watch me go up. I want to walk into another world, alone by myself. " She climbed briskly up the stone steps.

After a few steps, she turned back to smile at him, her hands patting her bag of books. “Father，please go home. I’ll come home right after school. I’m a good giri.”
“I’ll watch you up，I’ll watch you up,” Pao Ching fek loath to part.

Slowly> she came to the gate of the school. First she stopped to look at the huge pine trees behind the school, then turned to wave to her father at the foot of the hill.

Pao Ching looked up. She looked like a very little girl in the distance, and he could distinctly see the white bag she used to carry her books. He remembered the first day when he had brought her home. How tiny and pitiful she had seemed. He said to himself as he waved to her, “Well now，I must say I’ve done my duty toward you and Teacher Meng. M He turned away.

Lotus Charm watched her father till he disappeared from sight. Then she straightened her clothes and her hair, and walked into the school.

The minute she entered the gate, she seemed to have forgotten who she was. She called herself, “Lotus Charm.”
Yes, she was Lotus Charm. The old Lotus Charm had gone. Only the new Lotus Charm was left, as pure and fragrant as the lotus blossom itself.

The principal gave her a chair and a desk in a classroom with twenty other students. Some were middle-aged women, some were girls in their teens. Lotus Charm noticed that while a few were dressed in expensive clothes, the others wore outfits as simple as hers. Some were reading, others writing, and a few working at embroidery. In the middle of the room was the classroom teacher, a short stout woman in her forties.

None of the girls looked like Jeweled Lute, Lotus Charm observed happily. She would enjoy being with these girls and getting to know them, and talking the way they did. They would probably talk about the same things as Teacher Meng.

She was soon aware, however, that everyone was staring at her. Since she was used to being stared at, she looked at the girl nearest her and smiled. The girl did not smile in return. Lotus Charm blushed and went on with her writing. Then an uncomfortable thought came to her. Suppose the girls recognized her. Well, they would be bound to, for some of them must have been at the theater. But she did not want to be recognized. Yet how could she escape. There were only two drum singers in Chungking singing Peiping ballads, she and Jeweled Lute.

Then she thought she heard a loud whisper, “It’s her.” A silence and then someone whistled. The girls began to talk excitedly as if a storm had suddenly broken in the room. Again there was a silence. Then a harsh complaining voice said, “Well，my dear, times have changed. I never imagined we’d have to take our lessons with a whore.11 And quickly another voice added, “What kind of school is this anyway, making respectable women sit with streetwalkers?” This woman was about thirty. She had hard cold eyes and stared venomously at Lotus Charm. She was the mistress of a war lord, Lotus Charm knew. The other girl was a black marketeer’s daughter.

One girl picked up a ball of paper and threw it at Lotus Charm. Somewhere someone cried, “Chase her out! Chase the dirty whore! ”
The teacher thumped on the desk. “Attention! Attention! ” But the whispering continued. The girls were eyeing Lotus Charm angrily, and voicing their protest.

Lotus Charm turned white with rage. She sat still as a statue. Who were these girls to throw evil words at her! She turned and looked at them. One of them put her thumb to her nose, another made an ugly face. Lotus Charm's temper was rising.

The teacher went to the door to call the principal. The black marketeer’s daughter took advantage of this to cry in a loud voice, “If they let streetwalkers in here，I shall have to leave. I cannot afford to associate with such people.”
“I second that, ” said the mistress of the war lord. She threw her knitting on the floor. “Let’s get rid of the dirty little tart.”
Lotus Charm stood up. She began to tear her book into shreds with trembling hands. Then, as if making her exit on the stage, she walked out. Behind her she heard the girls laughing. Vile words came rolling after her like bowling balls.

Outside the classroom she burst into tears. She had reached the gate when the principal caught up with her. The liltle old lady took her into her study and wiped away her tears. “I am sorry, my dear. I had no idea this would happen. It is my fault.

I took in girls of low status because Mr. Meng advised me, and you see what happens. They mock you because you know how to behave. I am ashamed.

Lotus Charm sat biting her lips.
“And doi^t worry, V\[ arrange everything. I shall talk to them, " the old lady continued. “You are a good girl, and you must be treated as such. ^
Lotus Charm did not answer. When the old lady said she must come the next day she shook her head, and walked slowly home.

At the bottom of the hill, she turned to look up at the huge house. Her head felt swollen and dizzy, but she must walk on, back to the world of whores and concubines and kept women，and dirty money. Never again would she try to go up the hill, to be insulted. Never!
She walked on, her heart heavy, her whole body aching with grief. Her mother was right： once an entertainer, always an entertainer. You could not climb. No one ever respected a drum singer. She did not blame jeweled Lute for having what fun she could get out of her sordid life. Jeweled Lute was smart. She didn’t try to climb to be insulted by other women. She made the most of what she had, and pleased all the men she could. And Phoenix Girl was right, too. How smart to get married instead of looking for an education. And a voice spoke inside her, “Lotus Charm, go down. Go down the same path that Jeweled Lute and Phoenix Girl are on. It may not be a good path, but it is yours. Get on it quickly, and know yourself. Silly little tart.fJ Since she did not want to go home, she sat on a stone by the roadside watching the traffic go by. No mother, no father, no brothers or sisters. A girl alone, in a dirty profession, with no hope. She had tried to get in a new world today, but she had been turned out. She was beaten.

Across the street was the Kialing River, its blue waters swirling along to the estuary. That was it. She should end her worthless life. But she didn^ want to die. She looked at her feet, how beautiful they were, how firm and strong, and her firm white legs. Should they die so soon? She touched her face. The skin was firm and young. It was her face, and it must live. She placed her hands on her breasts, and felt their soft firmness. They were young, too, they had to live.

How silly to think of death when life was waiting. She would live without going to school. There were hundreds of girl drum singers, and they went on living, even those who became concubines and part-time whores. That kind of thing didn’t kill you.

She began to walk again. Her blood was warm now. She would live on. She could go to the movies and enjoy herself while she could. If Jeweled Lute could be happy, so could she.

She began to hurry, her little braids flapping in the breeze. She noticed that people stared at her, but she didn’t mind. She was Lotus Charm and Lotus Charm was going to a movie. Movies were better than school.

Later she went home. She had thought to tell her mother and father what happened, but when she saw her mother’s face she decided not to. What good telling her. She would not sympathize. Probably she would laugh. She could hear her mother saying, UA dog cannot become a goat even if it has two horns. Ha! Ha! ” No，she would not tell her mother. And her father would be angry. She did not want him to lose face. No, she loved him too much to tell him what had happened. She wouldn't tell anyone. She^ just keep going to school at the proper time, but she wouldn’t go at all.

In her room were some books and brushes. She picked up a book and read a few words. Then on impulse she tore the pages into tiny pieces and threw them out the window. The best place for them. Goodbye to books forever. Her mother cxjuldn^ read. Nor could Jeweled Lute, Phoenix Girl, or Mrs. Tang . But they were all alive and in good health. She broke the handles of her two brushes across her knee. The hairs she picked out one by one and laid them in the palm of her hand. Then she blew them into the air.

22 ince the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, enemy planes had not come over Chungking. There were frequent air-raid alarms, but no planes arrived. Cities such as Chengtu, Kunming, and Kweilin were now of greater military importance, being bases of the American Fourteenth Air Force.

The deceptive semblance of peace in Chungking and a growing sense of security persuaded the Fang family to remain there through the summer. Chungking was oppresvsively hot, but it was home and theater business was good.

One day Pao Ching suffered a shock, almost as jolting as an air raid. He decided to visit the school to find out what progress his daughter was making. Dressed in his best, with a present for Lotus Charm’s teacher under his arm，he toiled up the hill in the hot sunshine.

The old lady was frank. She told him everything, including the reason why Lotus Charm stayed away. She offered to return the heavy tuition he had paid. Pao Ching ignored her offer. He was stunned momentarily. Quickly, however, he realized the indignity Lotus Charm must have suffered, how it must have wounded her sensitive nature. Had he not had similar experiences himself? The stigma of being a public entertainer stuck to him and his family. They were forever marked as outcasts. But he had to live on, make the best of it, and better himself; otherwise he would merit the contempt shown him.

He walked home in a thoughtful mood. Half of his mind was angry with Lotus Charm, the other half was full of sympathy. What was he to do? As a man, he was sure he was worthy as the next; as an entertainer, he was high in his class. And his war services. Did they not count? Hadn’t he given his services gratis， without even charging transportation expense? He had never done anything to harm either his country or the community in which he lived. Why was he eternally looked down on? He raised his tortured face to the sky.

He remembered something Meng Liang had said. No, he did not understand modern times. That he admitted. But even these modern times of which Meng Liang was so proud had not wiped out the bad customs of yesterday. Why, in this great young re-

public of China, did people still consider entertainers lower than dirt on their shoes? He was angry now with Meng Liang.

He found Lotus Charm squatting on the floor in the living room playing cards. He had decided to humor her, because scolding would never work. uSo, " he said with a broad smile, “I have caught you, little monkey. Your father pays a lot of money for you to go to school, and what do you do? You play instead. Is that right?”
Lotus Charm blushed. She looked up at Pao Ching, but did not answer. She was biting her thin lips, as if to control them.

Pao Ching continued in the same mood. “And where did you go, little miss? I hope you kept good company. You know how I worry over you.”
She was able to smile. “Oh, I just went to the movies. I like the movies, and a girl is quite safe there. The theaters are dark, so no one can see you, and I learn quite as much as I would at school. I tried walking round the streets to enjoy the fresh air, but everyone stared at me, so I went to the movies.

Pao Ching frowned. “And your books，where are they?”
“I tore them up. I’m not going to study any more.”
“You mean that?”
^Absolutely. Why should I? If I study, people look down on me. If I don’t, they do the same thing. Why waste time and energy? I want to have fun. ^ Her face was pale now, and bitterness rang in her voice.

uSo you believe all those things your mother said, that an entertainer cannot get on?**
No answer.
“Just think,” went on Pao Ching，u think of all the trouble and energy you and I have expended to build ourselves a reputation in Chungking — a city where we were total strangers. Suppose we had given up. Where would we be now? Why should people look down on us? We are not like the Tangs. Have you forgotten what Commander Wang’s wife said?”
Lotus Charm shook her head. UI haven't forgotten. ** She repeated in parrot fashion with biting scorn, aNo one can look down on you if you do not look down on yourself, **
Tears filled her eyes. Pao Ching wanted to bend over and pat her shoulder, but something restrained him.

Father, " she pleaded at length, uleave me alone. I am better off the way I am. I am happier when I live from day to day, with no responsibility.”
So she was taking the easy way out, like other girl entertainers. These girls were respected by no one; they did as they pleased, going from pleasure to vice and deeper into shame, without a thought of tomorrow or a care for a decent life. Playthings when they were young, human garbage when they were old. His heart quivered with horror. This child, this flower in the flesh, going the same way.
“Let me hire a private tutor for you. He’ll come to teach you at home,he said finally.

No answer.
“Please, Lotus Charm，"he pleaded, “consider it. You could study here all the subjects you would have had at school. n Still she didn’t answer. His temper flared at last. He had taken enough. She was not talking. The impudent little ... His mouth clamped tight, and he flung out his arms in a desperate gesture. “Lotus Charm, ” he pleaded, “please，please. I have a temper, too. There is a limit to what a man can stand. Learn to be good while you can, and take what I offer. If you go the way your mother talks of …” He paused，and then white-lipped, he flung it at her, uIf I have to do with you what your mother suggests ... it will be too late. M She sprang up and turned toward him, her face livid, her eyes blazing. With her dark mass of ruffled hair and the tense poise of her supple young body, she looked like a wild animal. “All right，do as you like. I am grown-up now, I am eighteen and can look after myself. If anyone dares try to sell me, I’ll ”
He cut her short in a solemn, almost contrite tone of voice. “I won’t sell you, Lotus Charm. You know that.” His voice broke. “But please，oh, please, don’t make it too diffficult for me. Life is hard enough without adding to it. Let’s help each other.”
Without another word she went to her room. On the bed she lay reflecting. Perhaps she shouldn't have turned down that offer of a private tutor, but she was no longer interested in books. She had found something else, something more vital. And she had found it alone, without the help of Meng Liang or Jeweled Lute. She was on the threshold now. Why wait to be a good student, to be allowed to hold hands in public. She wanted to do that, and more. Love wasn’t books and music. It was something in the body, and a man and a woman. It was warm and fiery, and sweet and moist. That she had learned as her own body flamed with the desire of untutored thoughts.

She lay entranced, her limbs stiff, her hands clasped. Then from across the plain came a roar of thunder. She sprang up. Thunder, the nameless fear. Quickly she ran into the living room. Her father was still sitting there. He looked older. His head was bowed, and his face was lined. She sat in the chair by the door hoping he wouldn^ see her. The thunder pealed again, and she shuddered. Suddenly Pao Ching looked up. “Don’t be frightened, Lotus Charm. The thunder won^ hurt you. Remember that Meng Liang said educated people are never afraid of thunder ...They know what it is. ^
She went back to her bedroom, stripped off her dress, and lay bare-legged and bare-shouldered in the warm gleaming of the darkened sky outside.

Wait. Wait for what? Meng Liang had said wait. Everyone said wait. Was she to wait for her father to find her a husband, or for her drunken mother to sell her? How foolish! The characters in the movies never waited. They went after what they wanted, and they got it. Did they study? No! She wouldn't either, and she wouldn't wait. She would put out her hand and touch fire. What matter if it burned* The pain would be pleasant. Love was the solution to everything.

A pulse deep inside her was beating. She seemed to be listening to it in a great silence. The rhythm was swt-oi and stimulating, as if some part of her were opening like a bud to welcome love.

She thought of Li Yuan, and the pulse became faster. She had met him at a movie. He was her dark handsome secret. He was about twenty-five. Tall, with a large square face, big masculine hands and feet. His features were regular, and his small dark eyes were softly liquid and expressive. Although everything about him was large, he was the m〇wSt graceful man she had ever seen. And when he smiled he showed handsome teeth that stimulated her in a strange way she could not understand.

Li Yuan worked as secretary to the wife of the director of a government department. His job did not require much education, but he could read and write, and handled the family shopping and bookkeeping. He kept the lists of all those who made presents to his boss's wife, and ran errands. He was paid by the government, although his chief's wife was not a civil servant. It was a case of an amiable young man having a soft job, and liking it. The job had some disadvantages. The pay was miserable, but it included the title of secretary, and in some quarters that carried weight.

One day he noticed Lotus Charm going into a movie house, and followed her. That started their friendship. Lotus Charm liked having a man sitting beside her in the dark, and Li Yuan was flattered to accompany the most popular drum singer in Chungking.

The first time he spoke to her she blushed, but soon the two of them had settled down to an innocent pattern of enjoying movies together.

At first their association progressed slowly and with perfect decorum. Their faces might come close in the dark; then Lotus Charm would move away. But his face had come near enough to send pulses racing through her body. And sometimes Li Yuan*s cheek stayed so near to hers that she felt she was about to turn into flame.

The affair had taken on sufficient interivsity, that she expected he would kiss her when the picture on the screen ended, like the leading man did the star. But Li Yuan made no move. She would look at him in sudden exasperation, without moving her head, and see him sitting there looking stiffly at the screen. That made her want to leave without even saying gcx>dbye. Didn’t he know a woman expected something? But he always sensed she was going, and would say “See you tomorrow — same time” and stayed watching the movie while she went home.

The next day she decided she would not go to the movie house. Why sit and see pictures with an unexpressive man? And why be cheap by going to meet a man who wouldn^ be seen in the street with her? Why did he never ask her to dinner? She flamed with anger, but at two o’clock she rushed to the theater, and went to her usual seat. After all, he was the first man in whom she had been interested; and he was handsome, even if he did sit like a dummy.

And suddenly he was there. He had been waiting in the lobby and followed her in. In the half dark he looked more handsome than ever. And he was sitting closer than before. When he spoke he put his lips so near to her ear that she could feel his warm breath. Her heart beat faster and the little wayward pulses began to spread again.

Then he reached over and took her hand. Her hand lay in his like an imprisoned white bird, soft, tender, scared — his touch gentle, although his hand was large. She did not dare move; presently her hand began to perspire.

She took it away gently and wiped the palm with her handkerchief. Why should she allow him to hold her hand all the time? She mustn't be cheap.

When the movie was over Li Yuan placed his lips almost on her ear and whispered. Would she have dinner with him? Her heart jumped. She had made progress. He was going to take her out to dinner. No thought as to whether he had money, as to how many catties of salt this dinner might cost his employer. Dinner with Li Yuan. Of course she would love it. How wonderful!
He took her to a small and exceedingly dirty restaurant. This was an old-fashioned restaurant that provided rooms for those who wanted to dine in privacy. Li Yuan brought her there to impress her with his knowledge of life, but it was entirely lost on Lotus Charm. She did not kn6w the old-fashioned eating-house was one of the most expensive places in all Chungking.

He ordered wine. She drank it, and choked as it burned hex throat. But she smiled and pretended to like it. Wine was a new experience; as such she accepted it* She was hungry for experi-ence.

Li Yuan was strangely silent. She was aware that his eyes were devouring her. They seemed to sweep all over her, her arms, her neck, her face.
“Why do you stare at me like that?” she inquired happily.

He blushed, and could not say a word.

The wine had stimulated her. She wanted to sing to him, but she lacked courage. There were so many things she wanted to say and the words of the love ballads would be appropriate. When she struggled to find words of her own，the words would not come. So they both sat, awkward and quiet, having a wonderful time, although neither could find words for their thoughts.

They met often after that. Even if their lips were inarticulate, their hearts were silently expressive; and their smiles walked hand in hand. Sometimes she scolded him when he would not walk with her, or be seen in public places. “What do you think I am? Don’t you like me? Am I not good enough for you?” To which he would smile, and look adoringly at her with his ex-

pressive eyes.

Sometimes after she had berated him he would bring her a gift — a box of candy or a tiny handkerchief. She liked the presents, but she wondered whether to take them. It was not right to take things from a man, her father had taught her. Yet she dared not refuse these gifts. Not from Li Yuan. She could not offend him; once when she had hesitated, he had looked terribly hurt.

After two months Li Yuan was still only holding her hand. He had his problems. He wanted more of her, but he was afraid of complications. He had no money, surely not enough to keep a wife. And he was puzzled by Lotus Charm. She might be a prostitute, though she didn’t act like one. Yet she wasn't quite a proper girl. Either way he could get into a mess. He loved her too much to break away, and he was too afraid to possess her or even to kiss her. He was all sweat and hesitation.

Ix>tUvS Charm was piqued by the way he was treating her. She now had a boy friend with whom she could hold hands, and cha“but why wasn’t he a little more aggressive like the men on the screen? Why, oh, why?

The summer began, and Chungking became unbearably hot. Pao Ching was sitting in the theater in a ccx>l gown when a government messenger came to see him. Pao Ching was to come to the house of the head of a government department. He went unperturbed. i'he call probably concerned an appearance at a party. Hehadbeentherebefore.

When he was shown into the parlor of the large house where the government official lived, he sensed something wrong. He came face to face with a fashionably dressed wuman whom he knew slightly. It was plain she did not want to recall their previous acquaintance. “So you are the drum singer Pao Ching，” she snorted angrily.

He nodded, puzzled.
“You have a daughter named Lotus Charm?”
He nodded again, his heart dilating suddenly with anxiety.
(<Weil, old man, get this straight. If your daughter wants to ply her trade of whoredom, let her find a rich man instead of seducing a poor government clerk.” The lady was beautifully dressed; her clothes were costly; her hair was professionally waved; her hands were exquisitely manicured. But her language! Pao Ching had not heard such foul talk among laborers. None of it would he use himself. This woman spoke a gutter tongue spiced with the jargon of brothels.

When she had finished he said with a smile, “Perhaps you will explain- I am completely in the dark. M
**It's very simple, you old—! ^ she cried. **My secretary spent fifty thousand dollars of my money on your trollop of a daughter. ^ She spat on the floor, Pao Ching moved quickly out: of range.
“You are sure that is true?” he inquired.
“How could it be otherwise? Don’t you know your own daughter?”
He shook his head. UI have raised her carefully. I have sent her to school- As far as l know she is still a virgin, and certainly she has never done anything like that before. I am pained and humiliated. I am at loss for words. ^
She gave him a hard cold stare. uLi Yuan is in jail, M she said. **He couldn^ pay his debts. But he admits he spent the money on your daughter. You'd better pay it back and save your face.”
“I most certainly will. I hope that if I do, the poor young man will be released. I would not like to cause him any misfor-tune，nor would I care to make a useless sacrifice.”
“You pay the money and we’ll see about letting him out, ” snapped the woman. Money was more important to her than people. Fifty thousand dollars, her week’s allowance — inflated money, to be sure-all spent on a whore. She had never been so vexed in her life.

Pao Ching hurried home. Lotus Charm blushed when he asked her if she knew Li Yuan. “Did you accept gifts from him?” persisted her father angrily.

She nodded. “Some boxes of candy and a small handkerchief. That’s all，and I don’t care for them.”
“Nothing else?”
^No, he took me out to dinner sometimes. I wasn't especially hungry, but he wanted me to go."
Pao Ching regarded her with his head cocked to one side. Fifty thousand dollars! Some candy, a small handkerchief, a few dinners. She had a boy friend, and she admitted it readily. Meng Liang had said she was ready for love, and here it was. But was Li Yuan the right man? Should he find someone else and marry her off quickly? If he punished her for this she might run away.
“Lotus Charm，” he asked casually, ahow were things between you and him? How far did you go?^
41 Oh, we are just friends, ” she answered casually. “We went to the movies and held hands. That’s all — nothing else, nothing bad, nothing very exciting.”
“Hmm!” Pao Ching shook his head. “Well, be that as it may, your boy friend is in prison. He stole fifty thousand dollars from his employer and she says he spent it on you. **
Lotus Charm could hardly believe what her father was saying. A man going to prison for her! How romantic! It was like the story of an ancient ballad. Li Yuan languishing in jail for the sake of love. He must be the man for her after all, even though he was undemonstrative. He would be released one day like the lover in the ancient ballad and they would be married and live happily ever after. She must go visit him with food and cigarettes- She saw herself a tragic faithful wife going to see her loved one behind the bars. There would be tears in her eyes and a wan half smile on her lips. Poor Li Yuan, dear brave man that he was.

HLotus Charm, w announced her father sternly, “I don’t understand you. This is nothing to smile about. We have earned ourselves a good name in this city, and then you go and disgrace us with your disobedience and carelessness. Shame on you.”
Lotus Charm looked at him with an incredulous smile on her face. How could love be disgraceful? Poor father, he was too old to understand. If love was disgraceful, why did people sing about it and show it on the movie screen? Everything from faraway America was about love. And America was strong and powerful, and was helping China drive out the Japanese, so love must be right.
“Well, Lotus Charm，” her father said，“what have you to say?”
“Just this，father. Love is nothing to be ashamed of. It is no crime. I am proud of Li Yuan's going to prison for me. All I want now is love! Love, father! Do you hear, love! I want love! **
Pao Ching made a quick decision. She was really in love with Li Yuan. He would do something about that. As soon as he could get the young man out of prison, they would be married.

23 0^ ao Ching paid the fifty thousand dollars. It was inflated money, but since he had earned it, it hurt. He paid up, and the wife of the director had Li Yuan released.

The government office, however, did not rehire Li Yuan, so he had no money, no place to live, and nothing to eat. It was natural that he come to live with the Fang family. The Fangs ate well，and Pao Ching made money. Yet it was against Li Yuan’s principles; he liked to have a job and money of his own. Before he met Lotus Charm he had lived carefully and had kept accounts of everything he spent.

Lotus Charm was glad to see him, but after a few weeks she found her friendship with him very dull. When he was with her, he always sat stiff and erect, not even venturing to put his hand on hers. And he sat for a long time, only getting up to go out and look for a job — which he never found. Lotus Charm became bored. She did not, however, consider his side of the matter： he was hungry and miserable and ashamed, wanting her so much and not daring to make an advance.

Since Phoenix Girl was soon to have her baby, Mrs. Fang spent a great deal of time with her, much to Pao Ching^s relief. When Pao Ching gave his wife some idea of his troubles, she laughed, uDid I not tell you to get Lotus Charm a husband? But you didn’t, and you didn’t seil her. She finds herself a man. Now, let her take care of herself .. .
After she had had a drink or two Mrs. Fang became jubilant over her predictions about Lotus Charm. “You can still sell her，” she told Pao Ching* t(Get rid of .her now, before she gets into real trouble. If she gets into the family way or gets a disease shell not be worth a cent. Get that into your stupid head. Sell her while she looks good.Then she swept her heavy black hair into a bun, put on her gown and went off to see Phoenix Girl.

Pao Ching knew she was right. But he had a problem. He could not turn Li Yuan out, since the poor young man had no job. Yet Lotus Charm was in the house most of the day and night with a young man whom she loved. They might be really getting into trouble. He mopped his brow. He felt desperately alone. From Useless Fang or Meng* Liang he would have been able to get some good advice. Now he had to find his own solution. He certainly could not stay and watch them all day, and there was no work he could find for Li Yuan.

Perhaps the best thing to do, though, would be to get rid of the young man. Could he find him a job in some other city, or somewhere beyond the reach of his daughter? If Li Yuan were out of the way, he could have a heart-1〇'heart talk with Lotus Charm and find out the kind of man she really wanted. But these days he was never alone with her, because Li Yuan followed her like a shadow.

One day as Pao Ching was walking along the street he came to an abrupt halt. The solution came to him： competition; anoth-er young man，someone he could trust. He sought out Chang Wen，a handsome young man who owed him for favors in the past. Into Chang Wen’s hand Pao Ching put a sizable sum of money. Money would make Chang listen and respect orders. For Chang was a secret agent, a man who worked only for money, who obeyed only the power of money.

Chang Wen listened carefully to Pao Ching and nodded to show that he understood. He was to watch over Li Yuan and Lotus Charm, provide harmless competition, and be a friend and a chaperon. Boss Fang did not want Li Yuan to go to bed with his daughter. Sure, he would see that would not happen. Sure. Boss Fang could rest happy on that point. Li Yuan wouldn’t have a look in.

Chang Wen was part of Republic China, a product of the times. He had been trained as a boy by Chinese who had learned from the Nazis how to mold youth under the guise of patriotism. From his early teens Chang had been taught to dress neatly, to handle a gun, to obey and command, to salute and acclaim whoever was his boss.

There was no faith m him, no respect for his elders or for the tradition of his ancestors. Power was his god. You killed or you were killed. If you were not able by yourself to dispose of the other fellow, you formed a gang, and had him eliminated before he got you.

He could shoot, could trail a suspect, and was ready to work at anything for money. At times he had undertaken missions for the government. Now he was waiting for a commision. Pao Ching's assignment had come at just the right time. He remembered the little drum singer he was to watch. A cute little trick, if he remembered rightly. He inflated his chest. **Sure, Boss Fang, anything you say. I’ll look after her Pao Ching was pleased. With Chang Wen around the house, Li Yuan wouldn't have a chance to rush his daughter into trouble, and the young people would be able to think things over. Perhaps Li Yuan might even decide to leave, with another man in the house.

What a brilliant stroke to think of Chang Wen! Pao Ching could trust this man. He considered Chang Wen very much as a man that had his usefulness and could be bought for a price. The large cities before the war were full of his sort. You gave them money and told them what to do, and they did it. For Pao Ching, Chang Wen was definitely a part of the old life, a hireling. Having paid him the money, he was sure the young man would do the job efficiently.

uBut no violence, my friend，” Pao Ching warned. Chang Wen nodded.

When Lotus Charm met Chang Wen, her heart fluttered. How handsome and manly! He was like Little Liu, only much more attractive. While Little Liu was fragile, Chang was wiry. His muscles stood out under the sleeves of his shirt, and his black hair was smooth as patent leather, beautifully polished. He smelled as if he had just stepped from a barber"s shop. Just like a student, she thought, only he is a man. A real man.

It took Chang Wen only a few days to find out how Lotus Charm felt about Li Yuan. Why, all the girl needed was d little love! Not that Chang Wen was interested, seeing he was in a paid job, but there was no harm in showing her who was the better fellow.

And Li Yuan was sensitive enough to take a hint. Since Chang Wen had been calling each day he took long walks’ only coming back for meals. Lotus Charm didn,t miss him. Chang was a charming companion. He did not hesitate to explain to her the exact meaning of some of the words she used, and he added a few of his own. For Lotus Charm he was a most desirable person, and he knew the answers to all the questions. Why had she ever been interested in Li Yuan?

But sometimes she wondered if it was right to talk so freely to Chang. She could not help feeling that she was amusing him, that she was behaving like an entertainer sitting on a man's lap, which her father said was not proper. And her father had never allowed her to joke with the other girls backstage. Yet she was doing just that with this handsome fellow.

There were times, too, when she was moved with compassion for Li Yuan. He was so wooden and simple. When she felt this way, she wanted to strangle Chang Wen as he talked on and on, showing off his knowledge and his sophistication. It was as if he was cutting poor Li Yuan with a thousand sharp whips, and Li Yuan was tongue-tied and unable to fight back. But Chang Wen seemed to sense her every mood, and when a shadow crossed her face he would crack a joke that would send her into a fit of laughter. Laughing at his jokes made her feel she was quite as intelligent as he.

Chang Wen was astute as well as knowledgeable. He soon found out how many gold rings Lotus Charm possessed^ the exact number of her bracelets and their worth. He was disappointed they were so few. Her father, he always thought, was a rich man. Why hadn’t he given her more? “You’ve been singing for years，” he said. “Look at all the money you’ve made for him. If he’d only given you two hundred dollars a month，you’d be a rich woman. He’s cheating you.”
Lotus Charm had never given the matter thought, but Chang Wen made it sound convincing. Her father should have paid her. Why not? Other girls got paid. The best thing for her was to be completely independent. She would have a business arrangement with her father like Jeweled Lute's. She thought the money question over that night. She had to have money. If she had money she could marry an interesting man, and support him, and no one would worry about her being an entertainer. Poor Phoenix Girl could not make money, so she had to marry whom her father told her.

That night her mother went off to see Phoenix Girl with a suitcase packed. The baby was expected any moment. It was a warm humid night，with a hint of thunder. Lotus Charm was frightened to go to bed in case a storm broke. She sat up long after the show was over. Chang Wen never came at night and Li Yuan was out. Finally her father came in. “Don’t be frightened of thunder, daughter，” he said. “It cannot hurt you.”
“I am，and 1 always shall be, ” she answered, and covered her head with the sheet.

The next morning was gray and ominous. The city was so hot that the air was like damp cotton. It pressed on the face and arms and made sweat roll off the body. Lotus Charm was sitting in her room, wearing only a European pattern robe her father had given her. It was too hot to breathe. She was fanning herself with a wooden fan. Suddenly the room grew darker, as if someone had drawn a blind. Lotus Charm walked to the window. The sky was crowded with huge lead-bellied clouds, their tops edged with silver. Suddenly there was the roar of thunder. The clouds seemed to be ripped apart, as the shafts of lightning tore through them. Lotus Charm covered her face with her hands. A storm, and she was alone. Her father was out. Her mother was at Phoenix Girl's helping with the birth. The thunder crashed again. She held her breath. Then it seemed as if a single raindrop had fallen on the rcx)f. Others followed, and her ears filled with the stifling sound. Another flash of lightning set her screaming. She turned away from the window and ran straight into the arms of Chang Wen. She clutched him tight. He would protect her.
“So frightened?” he said_ “Why? There is nothing to fear. I came in to get out of the rain.” His face was close to hers* smiling. The thunder crashed again. She started and buried her face in his shoulder. His arms were around her. She was aware that he was moving, half carrying her. She stopped involuntarily. Another crash of thunder seemed to knock her legs from under her. She clung closer. She was aware that she was not standing any more. She was lying on the bed, and Chang was close to her, pressing his strong body the whole length of hers.

She closed her eyes, and that wise part of her stopped to think. She was alone! It was raining hard. No one would come; and she was lying on the bed with Chang Wen. Was it right? But the eyes of her conscience shut tight. Perhaps he could kiss her like a man on the screen, kiss her as poor Li Yuan never did. The pulse inside her began to beat rapidly.

She opened her eyes. He was magnificent, this man. At close view his face was not as clear and smooth as she had thought. There were three little moles on the side of his nose, and a small red scar on the bridge. She had never noticed that. Who had hurt him? She wanted to touch his face.

4SS The lightning flashed outside. Lotus Charm ducked, and pressed her face against his chest, like a frightened kitten. She realized then that his hand was inside her robe. She wanted to move it, but not until the lightning and thunder were over. She waited. The thunder came rolling into the stifling rcx>m. She must move. But why? This was love. But it wasn’t or was it? She tried to shift her legs, but they were like jelly — and the possessive, demanding hand moved in. Was this ... was she being like Jeweled Lute?

Her heart began to thump wildly. The hand had moved again, and she was aware of a great warmth somewhere about her. She felt lethargic now.

But she must struggle. This was not right- She would get off the bed and laugh at him. She opened her eyes. Chang Wen’s face was red. There was a strange commanding look in his eyes. Against her own throbbing body, she could feel a muscle of his jumping- She tried to move, but his arms were tcx> strong. She pushed her small fist into his mouth, wrenched herself free, and sprang off the bed. There, she was safe. Run, run like the wind. But the thunder …She stood still, breathing unevenly, her hands clasped’ a terrible sinking feeling in her stomach.

His arms went around her. He tamed up her face to his, and smiling, he kissed her. She tilted her head b^ck to avoid him, but their lips were still joined, his hot and hard against hers. She opened her eyes i then closed them quickly as outside the lightning flamed. Terrified, she subsided into a limp, pulsating stupor.

He put her on the bed. Relaxed and comforted she looked at him. His head went down suddenly, and his lips touched her breasts, kindling the fire in her anew. She was aware of his furi-

ous breathing, the quick physical upsurge of his body crashing into hers, and a sweet sense of triumph. There was thunder outside, but she did not heed it any more. The thunder was inside her now, roaring and demanding, burning her with a transcendent fire. Love ... this was love ... And suddenly he was stilled-limp. His head on her bosom. She could hear his heart beating, and hers. And some unknown and nameless part of her was opening and closing.

He made a movement to get up. No，no, he must not go. Sudden panic filled her heart. She found his lips and kissed him. And he was there again, close to her, the storm of his love rising in swift violence until she was near to fainting.

Then a great quiet, a languorous swooning peace. She was lost. Even memory had gone. But she was gloriously relaxed, and wise with the wisdom of the ages. Calm, as she had never been calm.

When he drew away this time, she could not protest. She lay where he left her, a tearful smile on her face. uFve got to go now, ^ he said. He ran his hand over his smooth hair. “See you tomorrow — perhaps. M The word “perhaps” stung her like a slap in the eye. Perhaps What did he mean? She sat up and tried to think, but her mind was wandering. He had gone. No lover’s parting，barely a word. Some part of her was remembering. She had taken something of his .. * something Jeweled Lute had told her . .. Suppose ...She walked to the window, and stood looking out across the city.

The sky was clear. The roofs looked newly washed. There was peace everywhere. And she was at peace too. Languorously she stretched. She looked at herself in the mirror. She touched the breast he had kissed, as if the fire were still there. Then she made herself up, dressed, and went down to the theater to sing.

The song over, she went back to her room. She locked the door behind her, and sat on the bed. Presently the tears came. For an hour she wept, and the pain of the tears was like the pain of love. When she cx?uld cry no more she crept into bed and began to think.

She had lost everything. She had changed. Of that, she was sure. And she wanted to weep again, for irrevocable harm had been done her body, which she had been taught to respect. Doubt stirred in her mind. Unable to bear it, she clambered out of bed, switched on the light and looked at herself in the mirror.

Where was the change? Had this slim face been altered? Changed so that everyone would notice and nudge each other, and say “Look at her. She's been done/* But what was different? There were love bruises under her eyes, that was all.

Much later, lying on the bed, she cupped her breasts in her hands and whispered into the darkness, **Lotus Charm, you have found your lover. You are alive at last. You are not Phoenix Girl who has to marry whomever she is told; you have chosen, because you were chosen. You are not Jeweled Lute who must sleep with any man who will hire her. You love only one and you have given him all, and you will always do that. You knew what you wanted, and you took it. ^
The face of her lover appeared in the darkness of her room, “darling，” she whispered, “darling，come to me again.” But there was only emptiness. Only the memory of love was real. This was her man. He could beat her, scold her, starve her , but it would be wonderful always. She slapped her face in the dark. Chang Wen was beating her. Any pain He could give her, was better than anything from anyone else.

But in the next moment she had decided that she would not give herself to him again. Never. That would be cheap. She knew what love was not, and she would be careful. Jeweled Lute had told her that girls got into trouble. She would have to be careful.
丁he foggy season came. Phoenix GirFs baby boy was two months old- He was fat and round and smiling. Phoenix Girl was quietly happy, Pao Ching and Mrs. Fang were overjoyed. A grandson was good news. Even Little Liu was impressed. He had given up smoking opium and was devoting himself to his music and to being a good husband.

Mrs. Fang drank only at night. She was afraid that if she got drunk in the daytime she might drop the baby. To everyone but Lotus Charm she was sweet and charming. To Lotus Charm she never spoke, but her little cold eyes seemed to say, “Get out of my house, I have a grandson now, part of my own flesh and blood, while you are a bastard. Who cares for you?M Li Yuan was leaving for service in Burma. The day he left Pao Ching told Chang Wen he was not needed any more. Chang Wen smiled and asked for severance pay, which Pao Ching paid. Then he smiled goodbye to Lotus Charm and left. Pao Ching looked at his daughter curiously. She had got thinner these days. Perhaps it was the heat. He had never seen her so thin, he thought, but then she was growing up. She was fully developed now. Her cheeks were sunken, making her face doubly attractive, but she was too thin. Perhaps she loved Li Yuan after all.
“Come, Lotus, ” he said, taking her hand, “let’s go and see your sister^ baby. Everything Little King does is amusing."
uNot today, " said Lotus Charm dimly, “I’ll go tomorrow.” She went into the bedroom. She had a baby inside her — Chang Wen’s baby. It was almost two months old now, a tiny little lump in her belly.

Her father came in. “You know, Lotus Charm, ” he said with a little laugh, “you are the last of my responsibilities. Do you want to marry? If so, I must find a good-looking, honest, hard-working man to marry my little Lotus Charm. ^
Lotus Charm did not answer.
** Please, daughter, give me your opinion. n
“I am young yet，” she volunteered dimly. “There is no hur-
ry-”
“All right. Then we’ll discuss it another day，but let me know how you feel. I want to do only the best by you. Now let's go and see my grandson.”
Lotus Charm shook her head. After her father had gone she lay on the bed. Her baby was Chang Wen's. Chang could not marry her, he said, because he was in government service. Chang meant everything to her. She had intended never to let him come near her again, but it happened every time they met. Every time she saw him she became a Jeweled Lute. She had done things with him that shamed even her private thoughts. She held her stomach. Her baby would be a living witness to her sin. When he was bom he would tell the world that his mother was cheap and sinful. The son of a drum singer, a pcx>r fatherless child.


〇j he wheel of fortune brought good luck to Jeweled Lute. The turmoil of wartime had turned the social structure of the nation upside down. Intellectuals and government officials became poor, and the laborer was exalted. The middle class of China was now the poorest, bound in the fetters of p>overty by inflation.

At the top of the social structure were the black market merchants, the grafters and smugglers, and those engaged in business at tremendous profits. They were the salt of the new society. They had money without culture, and they made more money as their less fortunate neighbors became poorer.

One of these men was Gold Tooth Lee, a rickshaw man who had turned truck driver and had made a fortune. He had a huge imported truck and carried freight for the government. For every three tons of government freight for which he was paid at the official rate, he carried half a ton of his own merchandise to sell at black market prices. In a short time he became fabulously rich. Inflation meant nothing to him, for he always had money to burn. He had so much money that it seemed ridiculous to do anything but spend it. And spend it he did. He wore expensive American clothes and bought himself a ten-thousand-dollar watch. In the breast pocket of his lavender-hued suit he carried four expensive American fountain pens, although he could not write a word. Sometimes he thought he should have five to demonstrate his wealth. If other people carried one, he should have five. The pens were his portable capital. If he had a bad day at the gam-

bling tables and lost everything, he would put up two of the pens as security against a loan. The pens were worth a fortune, since everyone wanted them.

Gold Tooth Lee was a product of Republic China. He had to have the best, even if his neighbors had nothing. His pocket hand-kerchief was of hard-printed Indian silk, and he carried a gold cigarette case filled with Russian and American cigarettes. He had a wardrobe full of suits, although the average citizen often had not a single decent pair of pants to cover his half-starved loins. He plastered his black hair back with brilliantine from Paris, paid for at the rate of fifty American dollars per bottle. To hide the smell of sweet caused by his exertions at the wheel of his truck, he doused his body with eau de cologne. The price of a single bottle would feed a hundred children for a month or more. On his body he carried more wealth than many a genuine American millionaire.

When he ate he spent enough on the restaurant check to keep an average family for two weeks. Each night he hired a woman to sleep with, and gave her enough money to live for a year. When he gambled his stakes were thousand dollar bills. Smaller bills were too much trouble to pick up. Each time he went to Burma he would buy a few fountain pens and a case or two of brandy, and have enough to spend for a month.

But he was not entirely happy. There was after all a future, and a man had to make plans. His plan was to buy a few trucks for himself and operate his own transportation company. This would bring him fat profits without his having to work. He also felt that he would like to settle down, and concentrate his attention on one woman. Having a different woman each night was ex-

pensive and exhausting, since having paid her, he felt obliged to have his money’s worth. Perhaps it would be better in every way to get married, and have the same woman at home.

And who would be more suitable than Jeweled Lute the singer, whom he had seen several times in the drum-singing theater. There was a girl. He had tried her at the cost of a thousand dollar bill, and she had given him something to remember. Also, she had shown him that she knew how to spend money. Wasn’t that just what he needed? He had thought so hard about new, ways to get rid of money that his head ached.

Everything about Jeweled Lute pleased him. He appreciated her bedroom tricks. She always knew what he wanted and when he wanted it. She liked to eat, and she had a name that was emblazoned on the theater billboards. No one ever heard his name; marrying Jeweled Lute would give him social prestige.

Gold Tooth Lee had reckoned, however, without Fourth Master Tang, the bride’s father. Fourth Master knew a rich man when he saw one, and surely a man with four fountain pens must have more money than he could ever spend. Fourth Master knew also that there is no limit to what a man will pay when he wants a woman. And Fourth Master had a woman to sell-a woman whose name was in the papers every day, a woman who could sing with the best.

He asked Gold Tooth Lee for a million dollars in cash, and a new American truck. The money might be worth nothing in a matter of hours, but the value of the truck would go up. Gold Tooth the truck driver agreed. Why, a truck was a very small matter between friends. Since Fourth Master Tang had got the promise of a truck so readily, his crafty greedy mind thought up something else. Would his future son-in-law give him a job as adviser and business manager in the new trucking concern? That meant a regular salary with no work. Why sure, said Gold Tooth. Anything he wanted. Fourth Master Tang was almost disappointed. Everything was coming too easily. He should have asked for two trucks in the first place, and twice the money. Would Gold Tooth assure him of a regular supply of ten ounces of opium each month — for his rheumatism? The truck driver flipped the air with his hand in a contemptuous gesture. Sure, that was easy. But when Fourth Master Tang suggested that he appoint him as guardian of all his savings, with power of attorney in case anything happened to him, Gold Tooth said no. Didn’t Fourth Master Tang know that the girl was his anyway? Fourth Master Tang signed the marriage license, feeling with all sincerity that he was being scandalously cheated of his rights.

The wedding was held in the biggest restaurant in Chungking. Gold Tooth insisted on a formal ceremony although he had been sleeping with Jeweled Lute at a thousand dollars a time right up to the wedding day. What did money matter anyhow, a wedding was a thing to remember. As for Jeweled Lute, she was delighted. Never had she imagined that she would be a bride at a formal wedding.

Jeweled Lute asked Lotus Charm to be her bridesmaid. At first Lotus Charm refused. She was too miserable, but gradually she realized that Jeweled Lute was being kind. The girl really liked her. There were many girls who could have been asked, but Jeweled Lute had asked her. When Jeweled Lute noticed her hesi-tating she clutched her by the arm and looked at her appealingly. She spoke with tears in her voice, wLotus Charm, please come.

Now that I am to be married, come and be my bridesmaid. I know I am a loose woman, and you are clean and pure, but please come. Let me have the satisfaction of knowing that there will be one virgin at the ceremony, and she will be my bridesmaid. You know what they say about that — it means good luck. Please give me good luck for my marriage. M The baby in Lotus Charm-s stomach gave a slight kick. Lotus Charm felt a wicked cheat, but she promised to be bridesmaid.

The great ceremony took place, and the ritual and the decorations were symbolic of the era. Every part of the world seemed to be represented, including darkest Africa. The room reserved for the occasion was hung with silk and satin scrolls of every description. The colors were so bright and so many that looking at them made one dizzy. The orchestra had been hired from a local circus. Their music was the kind that accompanied a magician’s producing rabbits out of a hat or pigeons from his sleeves. There was even a piece written especially for a man doing an act on the flying trapeze. If the guests were amused, certainly the bridegroom saw nothing wrong. Music was music, and the bigger the orchestra the better the music. That made sense to him.

He dressed for the wedding with great care, and the help of two hired valets. His suit was a black and white check of bold design. He wore a high wing collar with a red and yellow tie of silk imported from India. In his pocket were the four famous fountain pens, worth a million dollars at current exchange rates. He wore black knee-length riding boots, polished to mirror brightness, which he had bought from an English Army officer, complete with silver spurs which jangled when he walked. In his button-

hole he wore a huge white flower made of feathers, with the word “Bridegroom” written on a silk scroll beneath it.

Jeweled Lute decided to put on everything a lady should wear. Underneath her white silk imported wedding gown, which her husband had brought from Burma, she wore three sets of underclothing, a girdle* panties, and yards of ribbons. On the top of her white veil she had pinned a colored silk handkerchief, and everywhere about her was jewelry. She was wearing every piece of imitation jewelry she owned, and a lot of new pieces, some with real diamonds that the bridegroom had given her. Her large bosom was encased in a brassiere and smothered with glittering gems. There was at least one ring on every finger of her hands, and her right arm was covered from wrist to elbow with diamond bracelets. In her arms she carried a bunch of plum blossoms, long-stemmed and fragrant. But there were so many blossoms that she appeared to be carrying a small tree; and because she felt it was proper for a bride to be decorated with the emblem of purity, she refused to put down the tree for even a moment.

Most of the guests were from the trucking business and from the city^ vaudeville circles-the friends of the Tang family. Or rather, their enemies, who came to get a free meal and smokes. Fourth Master had given glowing stories of the bridegroom s wealth and his unending supply of American cigarettes- And American cigarettes were worth a small fortune. Who wouldn’t come to a wedding where they would be free?

As the orchestra played the piece that usually accompanied the rabbits coming out of the hat, the wedding party stepped on the stage. Fourth Master Tang was in his glory. He had washed the stains of opium-smoking off his face and shaved himself- His little pig eyes were lit with delight, and his thin mouth was smiling under his big sharp nose. What a day! To sell his daughter for real money! The dream of his life had come true.

Mrs. Tang looked like a small hillock covered with spring blossoms, in her multicolored embroidered gown. At second glance she looked like a camouflaged ship at sea, the colors so arranged that you could not see which way she was going. She had tucked herself into the dress with great difficulty and she was short of breath, but full of her own importance. When a few children got in her way as she waddled up the steps to the stage, she pinched their ears and swore in ripe theatrical language.

Lotus Charm was dressed in a simple pink frock. She carried a bouquet of country flowers, and smiled prettily as she walked. Some of the people applauded as if she were making an entrance on the stage. But she did not seem to see them, keeping her head high and walking with maidenly modesty, her hips hardly moving. She was like a simple flower, a supreme work of nature, in the midst of this over-dressed artificial assembly.

Then came the bride and bridegroom — Jeweled Lute swinging her hips and clanging her bracelets, the bridegroom prancing at her side, in a kind of goose step to show off his riding bcx>ts and silver spurs.

Their appearance brought the crowd to enthusiasm. Gold Tooth had arranged for his friends to cheer, and they did with gusto. Some clapped their hands, others showered the happy couple with beans and confetti. When the couple faced each other at the end of the ceremony, everyone roared “Kiss! ” in unison. So they kissed-the personification of love purified by a public declaration.

500 Meanwhile the bridegroom had bestowed a ring and a pair of diamond bracelets on his bride, and had thrown in one of his de luxe American pens as a kind of bonus.

The principal witness, one of the strong-arm men of the city’s underworld, then delivered a speech in honor of newlyweds. His discourse was far from high-minded, but it drew rounds of applause and set the key for the bawdy atmosphere that prevailed. Soon all the guests were shouting at the tops of their voices, demanding that the bridegroom give an account of his love life for their entertainment.

Lotus Charm was not feeling well. The baby was kicking inside her hurtfully, and she felt near to suffocation in the crowded stuffy room. But she was determined to stay through the ceremony to do honor to Jeweled Lute who had so graciously invited her to be bridesmaid. Soon beads of perspiration formed on her brow . She stood very still, hardly daring to move, biting her lips to prevent herself from crying out. Then suddenly the room went dark about her, and she crumbled on the floor.

She came to consciousness in her bedroom. Her father was sitting at her bedside, his face pale and drawn, his eyes glittering oddly.

For some time he could not speak. Finally he moistened his dry lips. “Who was it?” he managed to ask. “Who was it?”
She told him quite simply, without any display of emotion. The telling helped her calm herself. She felt happy now that her secret was out, and the baby leaping in her stomach seemed a most desirable person.

Pao Ching did not scold her. He merely nodded, patted her shoulder, and went out. Inwardly he was seething. That low ras-

cal Chang Wen. He would eat him alive. This was the lowest, more dishonest thing a man could do; low even for a gangster like Chang. There was a code among crooks, and Pao Ching knew that when money was paid for a certain task, that task was done, and the man who paid the money was free from being abused* But Chang Wen had taken advantage of him, and ruined his daughter.

He found Chang Wen in the tea shop where he usually went every afternoon. The moment he saw the young man^ face he knew that Lotus Charm had spoken the truth. Chang smiled at him in welcome, but his eyes avoided Pao Ching^.
“What do you intend to do?” demanded Pao Ching without any preliminary.

uDo about what?v asked Chang Wen. Pao Ching lost control of himself. He aimed a blow at the sleek grinning face. But Chang Wen quickly moved out of range. At the same time his hand snapped to his pocket, and Pao Ching found himself staring into the muzzle of a gun.

Chang Wen’s face was contorted with hate and fear. “I’ll kill you like a rat,he said quietly, speaking through his teeth, “if you try anything with me — you oW fool.”
Pao Ching hesitated. He drew a deep breath, and made up his mind. With a smile on his face he said in a loud voice, so everyone could hear, “Go ahead and shoot. I’m old. I was earning my living and traveling all over the country before your mother carried you in her beily.” Then he walked slowly toward the gangster, his black eyes fixed on Chang Wen*s face. l<Shoot, lit-tie man — shoot.”
Chang Wen5s eyes bulged for a moment. He had never been treated this way. Most of the men he threatened with his gun were frightened, and he killed them without so much as a thought. But Pao Ching was inviting him to shoot, daring him in public. Chang had killed many men, but he did not want to murder a man in cold blood, in front of witnesses.

He lowered the gun. Then with his head tilted on one side, he smiled at Pao Ching. “How could I kill my father-in-law? I am not that kind of man.”
“What do you intend to do?” Pao Ching asked sternly. “Whatever you say, Boss Fang.”
“Are you going to marry her?”
“I would if I could，but that’s not possible.”
“Why not?”
“That’s my business, old man.” Chang Wen moved away a step. He shrugged his shoulders. “I just can’t — not while I work for the government. You know that.”
^Then you will not come to my house again. ^
Chang Wen laughed. He snapped his fingers and spat on the floor. “I’ll come whenever I like.”
Pao Ching remembered ChangJs love for money. Perhaps ... “How much, ” he inquired，watching the younger man closely, “how much do you want? I have money.”
“I’ll take your money，old man，” laughed Chang Wen. “But I want her too. She's my girl, and she loves me. Tm the one man in her life. You ask her.”
PaoChing’sheartwentblackwithrage.“Youmiserablelit-tle bastard, ” he cried. “God curse your mother’s womb.”
Chang Wen was amused. uNo good swearing, old man. You had better watch your step when you deal with government offi-

cials. Your good friend Meng Liang found that out. He thought he could run away, but we got him. What do you think of that? Now get this clear in your head. That baby in Lotus Charm is mine. What I want to do with her is my concern, not yours. But don't worry. Fll be kind to her-and you too, if you behave. M He smoothed his patent leather hair, lit a cigarette and walked out.

Pao Ching went back to see Lotus Chann. He walked like a man in a daze. But Lotus Charm was not communicative. To every question he pul to her she only smiled and shook her head.
“Why，oh，why did you let him?” Pao Ching demanded. He was hysterical. His forehead was burning, and his heart ached. “Why，tell me, why, ^ he implored. He put out his hands to touch her, but hesitated. All the time she was looking at him withahalfsmileonherface.

He did not notice that Mrs. Fang and Phoenix Girl had entered the room. All he could see was the face of Lotus Charm, her thin lips sealed, the eyes dark and mysterious. Then he heard a noise. A great clot of liquor-stained saliva splashed on Lotus Charm’s face. Pao Ching sprang up_ He grabbed his wife and hurled her from the room. Outside he slapped her face and then came back. How dare she spit on his daughter, even if she had sinned?

Phoenix Girl was wiping Lotus Charm^ face with handkerchief. “Please talk to me, ” she pleaded. “Why keep your troubles to yourself. It helps to talk.”
Lotus Charm covered her face with her hands and wept. “What do you want to do?” Phoenix Girl asked presently. “Do you want to go to him? Do you really love him?"
“What else can I do?” Lotus Charm said ruefully. “I can’t stay here with mother as she is. M
“Will he marry you, do you think? And if he does, can he support you? Is he reliable?”
ul don't know. How would I know? All I know is that when he is near I am mad about him. He can do with me as he wishes. It is love. It hurts, but it is sweet ■ ”
uDoes he love you, really? I don't know what love is, as you think about it, but does he feel about you as you think you feel about him?”
“I don’t know, I don’t know.” Lotus Charm beat the bed with her clenched fist. “I know nothing. I’m sorry and then I’m not sorry. If I don't go with him, where shall I go? Til be worthless and a shame to the family. If I go, I’ll be lost too.”
Phoenix Girl told Pao Ching later that Lotus Charm wanted to go with her lover. Pao Ching accepted it with resignation. He thought of his business. His show was ruined. How could he fill in the numbers which Lotus Charm used to sing? And with Jeweled Lute married? He remembered that he and Little Liu could do comedy dialogue together. Perhaps that was the solution.

He went down to the theater. That night he and Little Liu did a new act, but it was a miserable failure.

After the show, Pao Ching posted an armed guard at the front door of the theater. He told the man that on no account was Chang Wen to be allowed in. Then he bought a padlock and put it on Lotus Charm's door. He was not afraid of Chang Wen. Even if Chang tried to shoot him, he would still win.


week later Pao Ching had visitors； six young men with guns.

They entered the apartment over the theater, and kept him covered. Then Chang Wen arrived. He took the lock off Lotus Charm's room, and told her to come with him.

The moment she saw Chang Wen, Lotus Charm let go both her tears and laughter.

But when she saw his gun and his band of thugs, she sat on the edge of her bed, stupefied.
“Come with me, Lotus Charm，” Chang Wen commanded. His face was deathly white.

She did not move.
“Come! Take all your things and your jewelry,” he commanded again, his voice shrill.

Still she did not move.

He lost his patience. “What’s the matter with you? he asked. “What’s the matter?”
“I must say goodbye to my father. You shouldn’t have threatened him with a gun, ^ Lotus Charm said. She was determined.
“Don’t you love me?” Chang Wen began to feel anxious.
"I love you. This baby is yours, M Lotus Charm said, as she pointed at her stomach. “But I can’t walk out with you like this.

I muvst say goodbye to my father. He, he is my .…She bit her lips.
“Come，” Chang Wen insisted. “Don’t waste time talking-

And bring all your jewelry. M
“I’ll come with you，and I won’t forget my jewelry. But I must first say goodbye to my father. You can threaten him with a gun. I cannot.”
“Give me the jewelry first.” Chang Wen was impatient.
“Wait — till I’ve seen my father.”
“All right. Go on.”
Lotus Charm did not know how she got to her father's room. There were forces pulling her in two directions. Should it be love or gratitude? Her father or Chang Wen?

Pao Ching was very calm and composed. He was sitting in the chair. On opposite sides of him were two young men with guns pointed at him. He looked calmly at Lotus Charm, as expressionless as though what was happening did not concern him at all.

I^)tus Charm walked slowly; then ran swiftly and automatically toward him. She had prepared many things to say, but she could only kneel in front of him, sobbing. Chokingly and with much difficulty, she finally said, “Father，I am not worthy of your great love. Tell me to go. I must go.”
Pao Ching could not think what to say. His hands grabbed the arms of the chair and began to tremble. Suddenly he smiled coldly and said，“Go，go, go. Nobody can hold a woman. Go.” Chang Wen came over. He did not look at Pao Ching. He merely-seized Lotus Charm and said, “Come! ”
Taking a few clothes and her jewelry, she left with Chang Wen, her head low. When they were outside, she looked at the sky. In the sky there was a bird flying. She said silently to herself, "'No matter what, Tve gained my freedom, like that bird.

Chang brought her to a deserted alley. Every house had been bombed, but a few people still lived in the ruins. Most of the houses did not have four walls standing, and some had no rooms with ceilings. In one of the houses was a tiny room like a box. Its walls had been shattered by bombs and did not reach to the ceiling, so there was plenty of light. A bamboo bed，two bamboo chairs, and a table were the only furniture.
“This is our new home，” announced Chang Wen.

Lotus Charm could hardly bear to look. The place was horrible. There were rats and bugs wherever she turned. But she did not want him to see how she felt. She clung to his arm and looked up at him. uDarling, if it is all ours，why，it’s just wonderful, ” she cried, hoping that with Chang Wen’s love，she could lessen the sorrow of being parted from her father.

She flung herself into his arms. He put her down gently. On the bed was the package she had brought with her, mostly shoes and stockings. She remembered she had some jewelry in her pocket. She put the little pieces of gold in his hand. “For you， darling. I don't need them any more. ^
His eyes brightened at the sight of the gold. By way of reward he took her in his arms.

Afterward they talked of how they would furnish the room. Quickly Lotus Charm made plans. The room was small, like a doll’s house. Well，they both were dolls. She would freshen the place up, and they would have friends come to take tea, and she would enjoy her new life. Then they would move to a larger place and have another baby. The dream brought a radiant smile to her face. Life was wonderful, even in a tiny box with only half walls all around.

508
“But we won’t cook at home，” suggested Chang Wen. “That will roughen your lovely hands. I want you always to be beautiful, dear. M She rubbed her cheek against his. How romantic and beautiful life was — like a love ballad, only a thousand times more exciting, because it was real.

They went to a restaurant to eat. Over dinner Chang talked of their future. It would be best to eat out always, he said. They could afford it, and the room was too small. He did not like the smell of cooking where he slept. Lotus Charm agreed enthusiasti-cally. She could not cook anyway. The more they ate out the bet> ter. How wonderful to be able to give him jewelry to sell to pay for her meals. She felt proud.

They went shopping and came back with a heavy embroidered Szechwan comforter and two expensive pillows. They made the room look bright and cheerful. The new comforter was a dream of beauty. Laughing like a child she stripped off her clothes and slipped under it. Then she reached for Chang Wen's hands. She kissed them rapturously, first the backs, then the palms, looking up into his eyes imploringly. ^Please, dear husband, this is our wedding chamber. It is sweet and fresh and warm. Come to your bride.”
Chang Wen looked at her curiously, as if he were unsure of something, but he obeyed and allowed her to draw him to her under the soft comforter. And for a few minutes she lived the life of which she had dreamed. How handsome he was, how gentle, how wonderful. Her black eyes were round with delight. She kissed his nose, his bare shoulder, his long lean neck. He was like a tiger sometimes, and he scared her, but she loved being scared that way.

The days passed quickly. Life was a clear brook rippling happily between banks of azaleas. And everywhere in this miraculous garden were bright colors and sweet music, sunshine always and pleasant breezes. Never was she conscious of the smell of the ruins, the stench of garbage and dead bodies, and the scurrying of the huge black rats.
“All I want, Chang Wen, M she would sing to him, “all I want is this little room, you and me, and a vase of flowers.” That amused him. He would laugh and chuck her under the chin, which she loved. Never a thought for her father, for the future. Their souls were married together and what else mattered, and soon they would be three, three happy people leaking at the new world to come.

While Chang Wen was away she kept busy knitting baby clothes and cleaning the room. She hummed the ballads she used to sing on the stage，and hugged her swelling stomach with primitive joy. How wonderful to have a baby. And soon she would have another.

Sometimes Chang came home late. Lotus Charm was always there. To eat without him would be a crime. He was her whole existence. And when she ate with him, she never knew what she was eating, because she was entranced by his presence. If he sat opposite her she would entwine her ankles around one of his, holding it tightly to excite him with her affection.

Chang Wen was proud of his conquest. He often brought his friends home to see her. And they presented a problem to the unmarried bride. She had never learned how to entertain strangers, because her father had protected her at all times. And now she was often the only woman in a tiny room full of young men, all of whom knew that she was living in sin. This, of course, they expected from a drum singer. Every time they came, Lotus Charm was shy with fright. If she was cold and formal they might be offended and Chang would scold her, but if she was too familiar, he would be furious and accuse her of being unfaithful. And most of the men were ready to take liberties. Sometimes, while Qiang was not looking, they would take liberties with their hands. And she could not escape because the rcx>m was so crowded and small.

Mrs. Fang moved Phoenix Girl and Little Liu into Lotus Charm’s room the same day that Chang had taken her away. Mrs. Fang wanted to have the baby nearby to play with. And she had no worries as far as Lotus Charm was concerned. Mrs. Fang was a realist. Girls got into trouble, and they liked it. Her husband was a fool, and what had happened served him right. She had a grandson now and plenty to drink.

Pao Ching was a gray silent man these days. He never replied to his wife^ taunts. When friends asked him about Lotus Charm he would answer that she was not well, or he would change the subject and talk about his grandson. His friends were loyal and never asked too many questions, but there were always inquisitive and thoughtless strangers.

These nights he rarely slept. The house was empty with Lotus Charm away. He brooded over the hurt she had done him. Other people had cheated him, and he had taken it lightly, but Lotus Charm — his treasured daughter. Each time he remembered how she had deceived him, the pain in his heart was like salt being rubbed into an open wound.

But he was not a man to lie down under misery. A burden of grief he might have all his days, but he had a duty — to help Lo-

tus Charm if she needed him. Sooner or later Chang Wen would cast her aside or sell hear. He must find her and watch over her, come to her rescue when she needed him. He could not fight Chang and his gunmen, but he could always be on hand to aid his daughter. He soon found out their address through the judicious use of a little money. His informant gave him a full report, even a description of the room, how Lotus Charm cleaned the place, and how Char堪，s friends came to visit.

Pao Ching's heart ached when he thought of her in this shabby little room in that quarter of the city. He had money enough to pay rent for an apartment. But he would not do that. He could not reconcile himself with that scoundrel Chang Wen, for the 丨pleasure of making his daughter happy. That would be too much to ask of himself.

He decided that the best thing was to try to forget. But how? Lotus Charm was part of his life. Even his hatred of Chang Wen brought a picture of his adopted child into his tortured mind. And sometimes he cursed the information that Meng Liang had imparted to him： that he did not understand the times in which he lived. Did Chang Wen understand those times? Was that how he had seduced Lotus Charm?

He tried to concentrate his attention on Little King, his grandson. But every time he found himself pinching the chubby youngster and cooing at him, he would ermeraber with sickening horror that Lotus Charm was pregnant and that he would soon have another grandchild, sired by Chang Wen.

To forget Lotus Charm and her husband he set himself a mission. He would erscue his friend Meng Liang. As the thought came he stood up and swore an oath. Every penny he had, every ounce of energy, every bit of influence, he would devote to getting his friend out of jail. Meng Liang was a true friend. He had warned him about Lotus Charm well in advance, and Pao Ching had not taken the advice. Meng Liang had helped him and in-spired him, and given him an opportunity to serve the nation.

If he could rescue Meng Liang he would be restoring his own fallen prestige. The whole theatrical world would look up to him-His new task kindled fresh zeal in his heart. He no longer looked a sad and broken man. Instead he was a determined man with a purpose. He made endless imquiries, he talked to officials and secret agents. He paid out money to find out where Meng Liang was.

Officials with influence on whom he knew he could count were shocked and scared when he told them what he wanted. “Better keep out of this，” they would say，and their eyes would betray the hopelessness of his cause.

Some told him bluntly that he was mad to bother about an eccentric writer. He came to realize that the old secret societies were useless. Their members could do nothing in the modern regime. From government officials he learned a little. The officials did not tell him straight out, for fear of being quoted. They talked in circles with considerable euphemism. As one of them put it，“In war, the power and the glory is with the generals. The politicians are as nothing when the guns are heard.”
Pao Ching followed their direction. He went to see the generals .He had sung at military parties and met many of the leading generals. They all had received him as an equal and had praised his talent. Well, let them remember his service to them and their men, and do something for him. But the generals were mostly too busy to see him, now that he wanted a favor. Sometimes their secretaries’and orderlies spoke for them, Pao Ching soon knew answer by heart： **Playwrights and novelists are not too good citizens. They should be done away with to prevent their making more trouble." One high-ranking officer looked at him curiously and asked him with a sinister smile, “Are you tired of living at your age? Better stick to your drum singing, old man* and leave the playwrights where they belong 一 in prison.”
Pao Ching bowed and left. He was licked. How times had changed. In ancient days the Chinese respected scholars. Even a powerful emperor rarely dared offend a famous poet. But today the army put the scholars in prison. Perhaps they had chopped off Meng Liang's head. He stopped short in his tracks, blinded with horror at tlie thought. What was wrong with the regime in power? Were China’s leaders of lower intelligence than Meng Liang? He looked sharply from side to side as if to make sure that no one had overheard his silent question, and hurried on.

That night he talked with Meng Liang*s theatrical friends. They told him they were working day and night to get their friend released. But they hadnJt been able to find out where he was. They thought he was alive, but that was all they knew. They had tried to insert personal notices in the newspapers, but censorship had cut them out. Yet they were not despairing. They would keep searching till they met with failure, or success. One young man took Pao Ching aside and tried to explain the situation. “If we make it too obvious that we are trying to save him, the secret agents may do away with him，” he said. “On the other hand，if we cannot arouse public interest in his behalf, the chances of getting him released are slight. We have to walk carefully. M Pao Ching was more confused than ever, but he sensed that the young man was warning him to curb his enthusiasm, for fear he might harm Meng Liang, wherever he was.

He thought the problem over that night in his bedroom. How confusing everything was. Before the war he had decided that strength was essential to win battles. If everyone in China was strong, Japan would be defeated. If the Japanese were beaten, everyone would enjoy peace and prosperity. He rubbed his balding head. It hadn’t worked out. The Japanese were not yet beaten. And look at what had happened to him. And to Meng Liang — who had urged people to be patriotic and strong. He had been put in jail by the government because he wanted to make a strong China. Yet a scoundrel like Chang Wen free.

He lay down and turned on his stomach, burying his face in the pillow. He did not want to think any more. He wanted to sleep and forget. Why go on thinking? A sharp pain racked his head. He must try not to think any more. Better be like his wife, dumb and drunken. She could live in these times without a worry. How lucky she was, and how safe.

He went to sleep from sheer exhaustion, unable to worry any more, unable to think.

The next morning he was up early, refreshed and restored. Sleep had worked its magic. He was still alive, and he had his talent. The world was better. He picked up Little King. The child grinned at him and cooed with delight.

Pao Ching looked at his wife, sitting in her chair, the bottle at her side. “Grandma of Little King’ ” he said with a whimsical smile on his lips, “you are indeed a fortunate person.”
“I?” echoed his wife, nibbling sunflower seeds. “If I was really fortunate I would never have been born into this generation.”
Pao Ching was startled. She did think a little, after all.


^ 11 the money was gone! Chang Wen had sold every piece of Lotus Charm^ jewelry, and they had eaten on the proceeds. Now they were hungry, and her stomach was larger than ever, so large that she hated to be seen outside the little room.

She had never imagined pregnancy could make a woman so unattractive. Her face had lost its fine lines. In the morning it was puffy and flabby, and she found it difficult to smile. Even when she made herself up with what remained of the cosmetics she could not hide the sickly pallor of her face. She hated herself and was sorry for herself at the same time. Her feet and legs were swelling. There were days when she could not get her shoes on.

Above all, she was afraid of losing Chang Wen. Often she looked at herself in the mirror and asked how any man could want to stay with a woman so ugly. Chang Wen still made love to her, but she had the feeling that it was about to end, that she must cling to life as best she could — two and a half people in bed together ：Chang, herself, and the unborn child, hers the responsibility to hold his heart for the child.

There was no tenderness in Chang’s embraces now. His attentions to her were those of a sex-hungry male. He took what he wanted, and then threw her aside. Once he smacked her bottom hard to get her to move over; another time he upbraided her for taking too much of the bed. uGet that stomach of yours out of the way，” he shouted. She turned her face to the wall and wept silently, but did not protest. He was her man, her lord and master.

The next morning she greeted him with tender warmth. In her heart she felt it had been childish to weep; she was sure he had the right to abuse her. Her stomach was big, and it had got in his way; she was contrite.

But Chang Wen was in no mood for tenderness. He sat up in bed, smoking a cigarette, his black eyes narrowed in thought. Suddenly he blew a whiff of smoke in her direction and laughed. “Go get some money from your father，Lotus Charm. We've got to eat. I have nothing left.

She looked at him round-eyed. He couldn’t be serious! Didn’t he know that she and her father had quarreled? That she had treated her father badly; so badly that she was ashamed? “Oh，” she half whispered, “oh，no, I couldn’t do that.”
^Don^ be a fool, M he chided angrily. uYour father has money. We need it. Why shouldn't we have some of what he robbed you of?”
She shook her head. To disobey her lover hurt her, but she could not abuse her father any more. She would not shame herself anew by going to ask for help. Chang Wens fists were clenched, as if he was determined to beat her into submission. She observed the gesture, but made no move. Then with a short sharp snarl of anger, he threw on his shirt, pulled on his pants, and went out.

She stayed in bed alone for two days. She had no food, no money to buy anything, no inclination to do anything but brcxxi. Her body was heavier than ever. She had trouble turning over, and hour by hour she experienced a nausea from hunger.

When Chang Wen finally came back he offered no explanation for having been away, and she asked none. She lay in bed, smiling and radiant, hoping he would come to her. As he peeled off his shirt, he said, “Why don’t you go out and sing? We have to have some money. Yes, that’s an idea. Go and sing somewhere.”
uBut I can't this way, M she half laughed. uWhat would people say if they saw my big stomach? When the baby is born it will be different. Besides, there isn’t a company with which I can sing except my father’s. There’s only one drum-singing outfit in Chungking.”
“Then go back and work with him.”
“I cannot. I couldn’t go on the stage like this and disgrace my father.”
“What do you mean — disgrace? What's the disgrace?M Chang Wen couldn’t understand what she meant. He could see no disgrace in a girl getting in the family way, least of all, a drum singer. He liked Lotus Charm as woman went, but he found her reluctance to make money very irritating. “You go and sing for your father, ” he ordered.
“No, ” she cried, “it would be too much. I cannot disgrace him,
“Disgrace! ” he sneered. “What the hell can a drum singer do to disgrace anyone?”
Something inside Lotus Charm snapped — the last frayed thread of her respect for him, the invisible spiritual bond beyond physical passion. From now on, things would be different. She had never thought he would say such a thing. He did not really love her. He did not appreciate that she had left her home for him, that she had given up her career.

Chang Wen left that night. He did not come home for three days. Lotus Charm could not count the darkness or the daylight. She was through with life. Should she commit suicide and end her misery? She was willing to put herself out of the way, but the presence of the child checked her. It would not be right to kill an innocent child for his mother’s sin.

On the second day she got up. She was so weak she could hardly walk. All she had tasted since Chang had gone was a few rice cakes and some tea. But she had to go out, to get some air. Walking was painful; her feet hurt; the swelling in her legs was agony. Where she was going she did not know. She was dragging along, stumbling and halting. And then she saw that she was at the end of the street leading to her fathers place. She must never go there. Never! She turned and hurried back to her room.

Perhaps some of Chang Wen's friends would come to see him. That would lighten the buiden of her dark lonely days. She could ask them to find Chang and bring him back. But they did not come and she knew why. Before, they had crowded in to look at her .— to see the famous singing star of Chungking. Now that she was ugly and sick, who would want to see her? A pregnant woman was not a pretty sight. She walked a few steps in the little room, and sat down heavily on the bed.

When the baby kicked she felt a pain that was more mental than physical. It was fear of the unknown. Suppose the baby were born in this squalid little room? Perspiration dripped from her forehead. She knew so little about anything. What world she do if a live baby were suddenly to leap from her tortured stomach? She had heard that women screamed as they gave birth. Was the pain so dreadful? It seemed that with every kick of the little foot inside her, the pain got sharper and more unendurable.

She lay in half trance. If only Chang were there to comfort her. At the sound of every footstep in the alley she raised her head and listened. But there were many footsteps in that sordid alley, with men and women going about their business. Chang Wen would not come. She became convinced of that. Perhaps her father or Phoenix Girl would pay her a visit. There was no reason why they should, but the thought that they might, comforted her. Yet she knew they would not. Their would was different from hers, a regular life revolving in the orbit of convention, as the earth traveled around the sun. She was in a world with no path, no hope of regularity.

Two days later Chang Wen burst into the little room. He was wearing a brand-new European shirt, with a silk tie and a bright silk handkerchief in his breast pocket. He looked bronzed and handsome. The moment she saw him she made excuses to herself for his absence. He had been busy earning money so that they could eat. He had been working hard for her, because he loved her. She stifled the words of complaint that were in her heart. This was her lover, her husband, the man around whom her world revolved. All she wanted was for him to touch her, to make love to her once more. Let him beat her, let him leave her to starve, but, please, let him love her. That would make her happy for days. In her imagination he was already loving her madly, and she had forgotten those three long days of hunger and suffering. All she needed was his love, the love which had made a woman and a mother out of her.

But Chang Wen did not even kiss her. He was busy packing.

She watched him, frozen with wonder, her hand jammed hard on her mouth in case she cried out. He picked up his socks which she had washed, his shorts, his shirts, and put them into a bright new suitcase he had brought with him. The tears came, but still she did not speak.

He stopped packing for a moment and looked at her. His eyes were kindly and pitying. There was a little smile on the side of his hard mouth. “I’m going away for good,” he said. “To India.” He went on packing.

It took a little time for her to realize the impact of what she had heard. Then it burst on her — India — all those miles away * She jumped out of bed and pulled on his sleeve. “Take me with you, Chang Wen, please …I’ll go wherever you go. I’m not afraid.”
He laughed. “Don’t be childish. How can you go with me with that big belly of yours. You^ look fine going along with me with a bastard almost sticking its head out. Shut up! I have better things to think of. M She was chilled. She let go his arm and sat on the bed, her eyes dilated with fear. (iWhat shall I do? What do you want me to do?” she asked.
“Go home.”
“Before ”
“Before what?”
“Before the baby comes?”
uAw, go home. None of this before' stuff. Get wise. Before, you were glad to take what I had to give you. You ate me up all right, so I gave you all I had. Wasn't that enough? You had a good time. I satisfied you while I could. Now I can*t, be-

cause I’m going away. Don’t be a fool.”
She flung herself on the flcx>r and clutched at his ankles. “Don’t you love me — not a little?”
“Of course.” He was packing more rapidly. “If I hadn’t loved you, how would you be having a baby?M She lay where she had fallen, too exhausted to get up. In a weak voice she demanded, "But our future together. What about the future?''
“Who knows? And don’t rely on me. You know me. I have a soft heart. If a girl in India wants me, I shall have to give in. I can’t be cruel to a woman. I have to give the girls what they want, and 1 have it to give. You know that，don’t you? You’ve had it.” Smiling, he looked down at her and ran his hand over his shiny black hair. “You haci your share，didn’t you?”
When he had finished packing he looked around the room to see \i he had forgotten anything. Then he said “Goodbye” in English，and vanished.

Behind him he left a small room, a bamboo bed with a comforter too bulky to go into his suitcase， two bamboo chairs, a bambcx) table, and a pregnant girl.

Lotus Charm lay in bed till hunger forced her to get up. One thought only was in her mind. She had to get work to feed herself and her baby. PerhapvS she could find a place where she could sing. If she could keep alive till the baby was bom, she could earn a living in some theatrical troupe, or she would make money any way she could — any way to provide for the new life. But she was through with love. That was a silly delusion. The old-fashioned way of selling a woman was best; or a marriage arranged by par-
ents.

She sold the bamboo table and took the proceeds to buy food. Well, at least she had some happiness. Yet it seemed as if happiness had to be punished, as if human beings were not meant to be happy.

Because her feet were swollen, she stayed in bed the next day. When she got up they were so large that she could hardly get her stockings on. She realized then that she was dirty, that she had not changed her clothes for days，and that she smelled like a beggar. That afternoon she called on a few tea houses by the riverbank. When the proprietors heard that she wanted to work, they laughed at her. Who would hire a woman with a stomach like a sack of rice?

She tramped back to her room. Her two braids were untied, her head covered with dust. Her swollen feet seemed to weight as much as her whole body. Her lips were dry and sore, and the whites of her eyes were streaked with red lines. At the entrance to the little house she sat down on the steps, unable to go farther. Her underwear that she hadn't changed for days, was damp and clammy. Perhaps it was better to jump in the river and save the baby the agony of being born.

She heaved herself up and walked down the passage. The door of her room was open. She waited, startled. Who was there? Was it Chang Wen who had changed his mind? Qr was it a thief come to steal her precious comforter? She rushed at the door. For that comforter she would fight ... Then she stopped short. The dimming twilight showed a bowed figure sitting on the bed.
“Father，” she said，“father.” She knek down, laid her head on his lap, and wept.
“I heard he had gone, ” said Pao Ching. “So you can come home with us. I couldn’t come before because he threatened to kill me, I had to wait until he had gone. I’ve come to fetch you.” She looked up at him, doubt and wonder in her eyes. “I can't come home like this, father.”
“You can. We are all ready for you. Come quickly.”
“But mother ... what will she say?”
“She wants you, too. We all want you.”
Pao Ching rolled the comforter under his arm, and they set out. wril work for you forever, after the baby is born，” Lotus Charm promised. “I’ll never be foolish again.” She stopped.

ust a moment，father，I have forgotten something.” She set out along the alley as fast as her swollen legs would carry her.

She wanted to look at the room once more. It was dear to her. This was her wedding chamber，her heaven and her hell. Here she was loved and hated, taken and thrown aside. Here her dream came to life, and here it was destroyed. She stood in the doorway, resting her eyes on every detail of the tiny room. This sight she must always remember.

She was unconscious of the passing of time. The little house had been bombed. It had been rebuilt, and bombed again. She had remade this room, and turned it into a love bower. The room would be empty again.

Then hand in hand, she and her father walked away, puppets on the stage of life; an old man and a pregnant child about to bring another helpless puppet into a troubled world.

Phoenix Girl greeted her younger sister warmly. Mrs. Fang was waiting in her room. She had meant to be obstinate and refuse to talk to Lotus Charm, but when she saw her adopted daughter, she melted to tears. u〇h, you bad girl, " she cried hys-
terically, “Come on，let me wash you and put you to bed.”
Across the room Little King gurgled and slapped the floor with his hands. Lotus Charm saw him and smiled.

27 otus Charm was again one of the family, but she made few demands on her father. She seemed to have grown up and to be wiser and more considerate than before. One morning she asked Pao Ching if he would buy her a maternity dress. Because she knew her father’s taste in dresses was expensive，she made it clear that she did not want silk or satin, just padded cotton, the cheapest and most practical.

Pao Ching wanted her to go to the hospital for a medical examination. At first she refused. She was afraid the doctor would find out that she was unmarried, but Pao Ching, speaking with modern wisdom, assured her that it would be better for the baby if she went to see a doctor. The doctor, he insisted, was not interested in anything but producing a healthy child. Her father5s earnestness convinced Lotus Charm，and she allowed herself to be examined. In spite of her harrowing experience, the doctor said she was in good condition, but she must take more exercise.

When Pao Ching suggested they take a walk alter lunch each day she refused. Everyone in Chungking knew her. She did not want to parade her unmarried shame in daylight. Pao Ching agreed, but he insisted that she obey the doctor's orders. So every night after the theater they walked together in the darkened streets. During these walks Pao Ching realized how much Lotus Charm had changed. Previously when they had walked together in Shanghai, Nanking, and Peiping, she would dance along ahead, holding his hand, asking a thousand questions. Now she walked slowly and always behind, as if she was ashamed to walk beside him. What could he say to comfort her? In vain did he try to think, but the appropriate thoughts evaded him.
“If only I could find Meng Liang，” he said half aloud. “He could explain many things for us.”
“I don’t want to think of anything, ” replied Lotus Charm moodily. “I’m just waiting for the baby to come. It’s better not to think.

There was nothing Pao Ching could say. If she didn^ want to think, why should he try to make her. There was a lump in his throat. In the darkness of the night he saw her as a saintly young mother, carrying a sinless child. Her child would be pure and untainted, no matter what its ancestry. It could only be like its mother, a good, clean human being.
“Father, will you love my baby?” she asked suddenly. “Will you love him as much as you do Little King?”
It was Lotus Charm the child speaking again, posing a difficult question.
“Of course, ” he said with a chuckle. “All children deserve to be loved.”
“You should love him more than the other one，father，” she insisted. “He’s illegitimate. He hasn’t a father of his own，so you will have to be his father.”
-“Right, I will, ” he agreed. Why did she have to remind him of her babyJs illegitimacy? And why should her child need more love? How could he be father to a baby that had no father?

The next week Lotus Charm gave birth to a baby girl. It weighed five pounds, was red and wrinkled, and looked like an old man who had lived a thousand years.

To Lotus Charm it was the most beautiful, the most intelligent, and the healthiest child in the whote world, even though her immediate world was limited to the bedrcx>m where she lay with the tiny infant at her side.

The delivery was painful. But when it was over Lotus Charm felt she herself had been born again. She had expiated her sin with those terrible labor pains, those agonizing pincers that had tom at her flesh for hours. Yes, she had paid, and now she was at peace. She had accomplished the destiny of woman and brought a child into the world. She looked at the funny little wrinkled face and clutched the tiny emaciated body. This was her baby, part of her bone and her flesh, filled with her blood. No part of it ever could belong to Chang Wen. How wonderful that it was a girl and not a boy! If it had been a boy she would have worried lest it become a Chang Wen the Second. But this was a miniature Lotus Charm, and it would grow into the most beautiful girl in the world. This baby would have all the love she had never had, and she would work so that it could be educated, to avoid the mistakes she had made. She could see her daughter already as a girl student, coming home after school. And perhaps she 矽〇111〇1 start her own education over again so as to be able to guide her baby.

She bared her breast and put the swollen nipple in the baby^ mouth. Some of the milk spurted in a stream over the little red face. She took the nipple and pushed it in the baby's mouth again. The hungry lips sucked vigorously, drinking the milk out of her. This was the symbol of love： the love of her bosom pouring into the mouth of another generation. She knew that from then on her life would be all giving. She would not receive any more. Her function would be to give, until she died, to give to the new generation.

Mrs. Fang came in to watch. She was a little drunk, so she was in a mood to insult Lotus Charm. After all, the worthless girl had produced a girl baby. That was like a whore producing a whore, and thus continuing an endless chain. If it had been a boy, Lotus Charm’s sin might have been worthwhile. A girl was just another potential trouble maker. But when she saw Lotus Charm with full round breast pressed against the baby's mouth, the unkind thoughts vanished. “You have courage, child, ” she said almost grudgingly. uAnd you have a nice baby ... Good luck to you.”
The coming of Lotus Charm's baby faced Pao Ching with a social dilemma. He had a helped Little Liu give a party for Little King when the child was three days old, and another when the child was a month old. That was the custom, and Pao Ching was glad to show the neighbors that he was a rich and influential father-in-law and a happy grandfather. But what should he do for a little bastard, a baby who had no father? He scratched his head. There was no point in asking Mrs. Fang's opinion. She would say no, without hesitation. He did not like to put the problem to Lotus Charm, for she would be hurt. Thus he waited in unhappy indecision .Three days passed and Lotus Charm made no comment. Then it was too late for the three-day party. When the end of the month approached he was still undecided.

He watched Lotus Charm carefully, trying to decide whether she was offended because the child had not had a party when it was three days old. But she gave no sign of annoyance. On the contrary, she looked happier than ever before. She was eating heartily to increase the milk in her breasts, and her cheeks were plump and smooth. Her complexion was restored to its former beauty, and she looked lovely in the bloom of motherhood. She had taken to wearing her hair in a womanly bun now, and she spent almost all her time tending and washing the baby. Sometimes he heard her singing their old drum ballads to the youngster, and his heart quickened with pride. There, surely, was the loveliest little mother in all Chungking.

The attitude of his friends and his enemies decided the issue as to whether there should be a party or not. Some of the theater people were obviously sincere when they called to congratulate him. To them an illegitimate child was even more desirable than a legitmate one as it was a demonstration of the mother's love.

Then there were his conservative old-fashioned friends. They knew about the illegitimacy, but they never mentioned it. That was to save Pao Ching’s face, and he felt warmly toward them for their reserve; although he knew that to save their own faces they were making it clear to the world that they did not approve of fatherless babies.

And there were his enemies, the gossips and those who were always anxious to needle him. They would come into the house and say loudly, “Congratulations, Boss Fang. I hear Lotus Charm has a daughter. How is the father?”
After a few of these people had called and mocked him, Pao Ching decided against having a party for the baby’s first month. Why should he entertain those no-good rascals, who were laugh-

ing at him all the time. He had nothing to be ashamed of. Let them have their own party.

He was unhappy about the decision. 'He felt he had wronged Lotus Charm and the baby. But neither of them complained.

When the month was up Lotus Charm came back to the theater to sing.

Before she went on stage, she asked Pao Ching, “Father, what should I wear?”
“Wear whatever is beautiful，” he said. He was happy that she was the star in his company once again.
^Father .. . She was about to say something more but hesitated.
“What?” Pao Ching asked.
“Funny, I really don't know what to wear. I wanted to become a student, but I had an illegitimate child instead. I wanted to run away from the theater, but now I am about to go on again. Funny, isn’t it?” But she did not smile, and tears were in her eyes.

Pao Ching was momentarily at loss for words. He merely-said, KPlease think of helping me out.}t She wore a plain dress. She wore little powder or lipstick on her face. She said to herself as she was putting on the make-up, “To put on a plain dress for the mourning of my past.”
Then she kissed her baby passionately and rushed backstage.

Out in front, she decided to sing a most tragic love story.

She began to beat the drum strongly. Her voice was low and feminine now. Her eyes looked only at the center of the drum and not the audience. She was determined to put everything in her work to help her father; only by helping her father could she con-

tinue to live.

Her head bent lower and lower as she sang, for the tragic story was parallel to her own, and she did not want the audience to see her tears.

The song over, she lifted her face and calmly looked at the audience as though to say, “Now, what do you think of me?” Then she bowed, turned and walked slowly down the stage.

There was much applause. But at the same time, the audience seemed to find her baffling. She was fuller and prettier than before, yet she looked so tragic. She was young yet experienced, weak yet strong.

Five months slipped by, and Lotus Charm's baby still had no name. Pao Ching looked daily at the child to convince himself that she was not taking after her father. That would be terrible. But what to name her. She could be named Chang or Fang. But neither name seemed suitable. Chang he hated because it was her father's name, and Fang was not really Lotus Charm^ name, because she was an adopted child. As a result, to everyone she was just Lotus Charm's baby.

Mrs. Fang took little notice of the child. She had decided that Little King, her grandson, should have all her love. She compromised with Pao Ching by being tolerant with Lotus Charm, but that was all. She wasn’t doing a thing for the baby.

Seeing this, Pao Ching understood why Lotus Charm had asked him to give more of his love to her child, but he knew that if he showed partiality openly, it would cause war in the family. Lotus Charm^ child was a bastard, and it would always be treated as such.
(<I understand, " agreed Lotus Charm when he told her that he could not give her child special attention. “I feel awful about her myself. There are times when I love her madly. At others, I could toss her out the window.

A month later Jeweled Lute returned askir^ for work. Her husband had spent all his money, and they had agreed to separate.

She took the separation like a gcxxd trouper. She shrugged her shoulders and smiled, lifting her ponderous bosoms. “I like to work, M she cried. “So here I am.”
Jeweled Lute adored Lotus Charm’s baby. “You are so lucky, darling,she said, as she knelt on the floor and played with the baby’s little pink toes. “I’ve done so much. Yet I have nothing. You at least have a baby. Why, having a baby of your own is worth more than all the money in the world.”
Lotus Charm nodded. She didn’t know whether to laugh or cry. She wanted to do both. But she merely hugged the baby and smiled acknowledgment.

Lotus Charm’s baby had already learned to walk and was even talking a little by the time the Japanese finally surrendered after eight long years of war. The citizens of Chungking celebrated as best they could, even the starving university professors and civil servants. The profiteers flung their money about wildly. Everyone cried, “Long live China, ” even wounded soldiers who had given their blood for their country and had gotten nothing in return but rags and empty stomachs. The generals put on their dress uniforms and polished up their medals and posed in the streets, although some of them had never been near the front.

The ordinary citizens were a trifle bewildered. After eight years of war and semi-starvation, they had no money for victory drinks. But it cost nothing to cheer, so they cheered, and ran hither and thither joining in first one procession and then another.

Pao Ching stayed at home. He did not feel like taking part in any victory parade. Instead he sat with his head bowed, thinking of all that had happened to him in the past eight years. He had lost his best-loved elder brother. He had lost his best-loved daughter to a scoundrel, and she had had a baby- His dearest friend was in prison. Would Meng Liang be released now that peace was restored?

Pao Ching sighed. Then he smiled. He had to go on. Soon he would be able to take up the old life again and travel from Peiping to Nanking, wherever he wished, wherever there was an audience waiting to hear his drum singing. Yes, he must get on the road again. There was always money in show business. You sang when the flowers were blooming, and when they withered. You sang in peace, and you sang in war; and you were paid for your art. Show business was a good life after all.

There was so much to do. He had not organized his entertainers’ club, nor his school to train drum singers. These things he must do, sometime.

A few days later, the Fang family began to pack. Pao Ching went out in search of steamboat tickets. Prices had soared over night, and the black market operators had moved in. It was the same as when the family had moved from the coast to Chungking. He spent a day bribing, soliciting, and giving concessions; and finally returned home with the news that he had spent most of his ready cash to secure space on the deck of the boat leaving in two days' time.

Pao Ching was youthful and exuberant again. The prospect of being on the move was exhilarating. He was going down the river under conditions that were much the same as they were when he came. He had no more luggage than when he came. His main pieces were the stringed instrument and the drum. But the number of his family had increased. He had lost his beloved brother, but he had two babies and Little Liu.

Lightheartedly, he thought of his less fortunate brothers, the Tangs, and went over to ask them if they would like to come along. It was foolish even to suggest it, he thought, but they were show people, and he hated the idea of leaving them in the capital without money. Fourth Master Tang shook his head when Pao Ching made him the offer. He wanted to stay. The price of opium was down in Chungking, and Jeweled Lute could still make enough money to keep them, even if she didn't sing a note.

28 ao Ching paid his last respects to his elder brother the day before the boat sailed. Early in the morning he went to South Warm Springs and climbed the hill to the cemetery where Useless Fang lay buried. There he wept until there were no more tears. The weeping was a relief, as if he were washing away all the sorrow and tribulation of eight long years, leaving them with his beloved brother.

Lotus Charm’s troubles were the real cause of his tears. His elder brother had loved her as much as he, and had not Useless Fang watched over her as ii he were her own father? If he had lived, this trouble and shame would never have come to her. And Pao Ching，Kneeling at his brother’s grave on the green hillside， felt that he must ask his brother's forgiveness for allowing the child to get into trouble. Having unburdened himself, he implored Useless Fang to forgive him and to bless the whole family. Then he burned some paper money for his brother's use in the other world, and went back to Chungking.

Feeling better after that long conversation with his brother, he attacked the task of packing with the vigor of a young men. Mrs. Fang was troublesome as always. She wanted to take everything with her, everything from cups to bamboo tables and chairs. Pao Ching solved the problem by giving them to the servants in the theater — as souvenirs of the Fang family.

Lotus Charm and Phoenix Girl had already packed most of the things they would need for their two children. Grownups could travel with bare necessities, but on a long trip babies could not, so there was plenty to do.

When she had finished her packing, Lotus Charm took her baby and went out into the streets, to take a last look at Chungking. She had been in the mountain city so long that it seemed part of her. With the baby clutching her hand and toddling beside her, she began to walk. Every building she encountered was personal history to her. She had seen the new temporary buildings built, and the tall handsome facades of the modern structures reduced to burning masses of rubble by enemy bombs. The war had changed the city, and she realized with an acute pang that the war had changed her too.

High on the hill the air-raid shelters opened their huge dark mouths like blots of ink on the landscape. So much time she had spent in those caverns. She could still smell the damp suffocating air, and in her ears was the sizzling sound of flying fragments as the bombs exploded. Those miserable places to which people were driven by war, where thousands caught malaria and other diseases. And her favorite uncle was dead, killed by an enemy bomb. She herself was alive, but it seemed to her as she struggled to keep back the tears that she would be better off dead, she and her nameless little girl baby.

She did not want to see anything else, yet the urge to stay was too strong. This city had a strange appeal for her. What was it? The answer came in a flash of consciousness. It was here that she had found love and had become a woman. She began to weep. And her conscience fretted and nagged sharply. Why hadn't she gone with her father to pay her respects at her uncled grave in South Warm Springs?

She picked up the baby and walked on. Already the streets of the city had changed. Thousands of people were getting ready to go home, and in the streets they were displaying for sale the things they did not want. Everything was cheap. A number of people had come in from the country to pick up bargains, and their arrival started competition in buying between them and the townspeople with the result that the homeward bound refugees picked up a few dollars.

Seeing the bargaining going on, Lotus Charm felt that she was like the household articles the people had for sale. She was old now, and damaged, almost worthless — like a broken bed or a pair of worn shoes.

A sadden impulse seized her, and she hurried on till she came to a familiar turning off the main street. She must go see the little house where she and Chang Wen had lived. 丁here was her love chamber, and her prison, where she had suffered all the tortures that hell has for a woman still alive. Thinking of her experiences, she stopped short . Her legs would not move, and her heart was pounding painfully. The baby was heavy in her arms. She put it down. In that little house she had experienced love. She had known everything that was pleasant, and all the horrors of desertion and cruelty. Some things in life she might forget, but never would she forget that little room. It would be with her to the end of her days, every stick of furniture, every piece of fabric, the beautiful comforter, the holes in the ceiling, and every moment of exquisite passion, every drawn-out hour of torture. These were engraved on the memory of her heart.

She picked up the baby and forced herself to walk on. She was sweating as she came in sight of the alley. There was her love nest. How sordid and tiny it seemed! Was it possible that there she had known the greatest heights of love? Was this pigsty her palace?

She put the baby down, then bent over and kissed its warm little head. The house might be small, it might be ruined, and it might be pulled down to make way for a new building; but she had something that would live on and give birth to others, her ba-by.

Oh, to go inside and look at the little room! Were the huge gaping rat holes still there? Did anyone live in it? She entered the door of the ruined house and stood looking at the entrance to her bridal chamber. Did it belong to Chang Wen still? Was anyone there? Then the door of the room opened slowly, and a young woman walked out. Her face was heavy with make-up and she wore a red dress. Lotus Charm turned and stumbled away, her baby clutched in her arms. Some other young woman was living in her room, a prostitute perhaps, or a bride. What did it matter. Women were all alike, frail and worthless.

She found it difficult to walk away. It was as if the house had invisible chains which bound it to her. And the image of Chang Wen formed in her eyes. She hated him. He was brutal, but he had become part of her. Suppose he were to appear now and tell her to come with him. What would she do? She would go. She would go even though she knew that in a matter of hours he would throw her aside like a soiled shirt. Love was like that. His love had poisoned her and made her his slave. She hurried way, the baby jolting in her arms. She must get away, she must never see him again. When she could run no more she stopped for breath and looked over her shoulder to see if he were following. Around her was the destroyed city. The city would be rebuilt, but nothing could ever restore her.

When she came in sight of the theater she felt restored. Silly to give way to her imagination. Her association with Chang had not killed her. She was still alive after the agony of childbirth; nothing could destroy her except herself. She was fragile perhaps’ and she was young, but she had strength and courage. She was not afraid of life. She raised her face suddenly and looked up at the sky. Happiness would come again. She would go out and look for it, and she would deserve it. On that she was determined. She kissed her baby. ^Is mama prettyshe asked.

The baby gurgled and lisped, “Mama, mama. M “Is mama brave?”
“Mama! ”

“Shall we be happy?”
The baby laughed，“Mama! ”
“Then we shall go together to see the world. To Nanking, to Shanghai. Mama will sing and earn money for you. Mama is afraid of nothing.

When she got home she was serene and smiling. Pao Ching gave her a long searching look. Something had happened to her. Had she fallen in love again? The sooner they were on the boat, the better.

They were off again. The little steamboat was crowded. Everything was just as it had been seven years before. The decks were piled high with luggage. People were trying to go everywhere and cursing because they could not. No one could get to the dining saloon, so the waiters had to carry the food to the people where they st(X)d. And the funnel was pouring black soot on the decks. Babies were crying, and old people were grumbling.

The only difference was that there was no fear in the hearts of the passengers. The war was over. That was all that mattered. Not even those deep gorges had any terror any more. Everyone on board was hoping that they would soon reach the gorges, for that would mean they were near Ichang and nearer home.

The people were happy. The people from the north were already imagining they could see the great plains along the banks of the Yellow River and smell the sunbaked yellow earth. That was home and heaven to them. And the southerners were already seeing the flowers of their native land in bloom and the bamboo trees growing in green splendor. So they sang and drank, and played games on their fingers.

But Pao Ching had changed. He was no longer as brisk and active as he had been seven years earlier. Time had exacted penalties from him. There were white streaks on his temples now, and his face was thinner, so thin that his eyes looked enormous and his cheeks hollow. But he kept moving about as best he could, greeting his fellow passengers and cracking jokes. Often he sat down to rest on the deck, looking at Lotus Charm and her baby. Seven years — almost a lifetime, and how that- lifetime had wronged her.

It was too dangerous to travel by night along the Yangtze gorges. The ship anchored at the foot of a hill. On top of the hill was an ancient walled city which Pao Ching and his family could see from the boat.

Early next morning, the captain of the ship made an announcement .There was something wrong with the engine which would take two days to repair.

Toward evening of the third day, another ship anchored nearby for the night.

Pao Ching went over to look at the ship. Most of its passengers were leaving to go up the Kill to do a tour of the ancient city. Pao Ching had been up there the night before, so he did not want to go with the crowd. He turned, and strolled slowly and thoughtfully along the riverbank, his hands folded behind him.

He had not walked far when someone suddenly patted him oa the shoulder. As he swung around, his eyes widened with joy. Meng Liang the playwright was standing there, his face bright with a smile. He looked very thin, almost like a skeleton. He told Pao Ching he was on board the boat which had just anchored, and that he had been pardoned.
“Victory is here, ” he said with a smile. “So they let me out.

You ask how I got out, but to me it is more important to know how I got in.”
Pao Ching nodded. I never understood why they should arrest you. You did not commit any crime. I tried to get you out, but no one would tell me where you were，”
“I know. My friends were worried about me, but I was more worried about the people who put me in jail ... about their minds ”
They were slient. Both were thinking of the injustice that had been done to Meng Liang, but the serenity of the flowing river, the sweet odor of the grass, and the peace of the sky calmed their thoughts.

Later Pao Ching suggested that Meng Liang should go to see Lotus Charm. He explained that she had a baby, and his face turned red as he spoke. Meng Liang was undisturbed. “I’ll see her later，” he said. “Poor little thing. She has been in prison like me. Only l was in a physical jail, and she was in a mental one. ” Pao Ching sighed. “I just don’t understand her，nor can I comfort or advise her. She is my real worry. In this turmoil of war, I as a mere entertainer have been very lucky to make a better living than many others who were more capable than I. But, Lotus Charm was like a curse cast on my good fortune! ”
“I know.” Meng Liang got up and stretched his legs. “My dear second elder brother, many of your actions follow the times, but you don’t know it.”
“Give me an example.”
uYour not wanting to sell her is a good example. But that was not your own idea. The changing times made you change too. Your wife has no feeling about selling human beings, because the times have not touched her. Many people living today have not even been touched by the present. That saying of hers, ‘All entertainers are unlucky, 5 started some eight hundred years ago. Bui she is still staying it as though it were new. So you see, you are more advanced than she is. You are walking ahead of her.M
“Thank you.” Pao Ching bowed.
“If time were like this river，” continued Meng Liang, “some fish would swim along with the stream, others would hide under a rock and never move.”
“Rock carp don’t move, ” Pao Ching observed.
“Neither does you wife. You move ahead, and you know it is not right to sell human beings. But you’ve gone only so far. In other matters you hide yourself under rock and become a rock carp. You wouldn’t recognize that Lotus Charm needed love, so you wouldn't give her sound advice. Lotus Charm wanted love but was upset at not getting it. The first man who came along took advantage of her ... She thought it was love, Love and lust are little different. Yet you introduced Chang Wen to her ... If you had understood then that love is nothing to be ashamed of, you could have talked with her frankly and guided her to the right path. But you used the same old make-do methods on her which you used to handle your fellow entertainers and others. You failed because you misjudged the times — and Lotus Charm received nature's oldest punishment for her modern courage. Both you and she, my dear second elder brother, were rolled into a whirlpool. v Meng Liang pointed his finger at a whirlpool in the river.

Pao Ching leaned over to look at the swiftly flowing river. hope she can get out safely.”
“Tomorrow we go through the gorges, " Meng Liang re-

marked. “There will be many whirlpools. But an experienced navigator can sail a ship through the worst. That was why I suggested that Lotus Charm go to school. With sufficient knowledge and experience she would not get lost in the whirlpool of life. But IVe done something for which I am very sorry. I didn't know the school was as bad as it was. A girl of Lotus Charm’s sort naturally could not take such insults. I shall be embarrassed when I see her. I treated her like my own daughter, but quite unintentionally I was the cause of all her troubles.

After a long pause Pao Ching asked, uDo you think that if Lotus Charm had studied at that school she would never have run into trouble? Don’t young people who speak so much of love by their own choice often get themselves into trouble?”
<(The tragedy of love can be found anywhere any time,answered Meng Liang. “It was not specially prepared for Lotus Charm. Knowledge and experience could only help, but they are not tragedy-proof. And please don^ think this is the end just because Lotus Charm has a baby. Love is experience. She will grow in mental stature by suffering. Losing her virginity won't keep her from going ahead. She can still get back her self-confidence and self-respect, if you will guide her and encourage her.” Meng Liang looked at Pao Ching as though he was afraid Pao Ching might not believe what he said. He opened his shirt and revealed streaks of scarred flesh. “This was what they did to me in jail, burnt with the tips of incense.”
Pao Ching gasped. Meng Liang continued, “But these wounds are healed now. I am still myself. I shall still write books and say what I want to say. I am not ashamed of these scars, and certainly I did not surrender to evil because of the temporary pain.

I shall continue my work till they come to get me again. I am not afraid if my bones are ground up for fertilizer, so long as plants can grow flowers of freedom. Lotus Charm’s wound is similar to mine, in a sense. I told the truth, and I was put in jail. I wrote about things I believed, and I was tortured- IjDtus Charm wanted to remake her life according to her own desire, and she, too, had her punishment. Better times will come. But before they do, many people will be sacrificed. M As Meng Liang paused for breath, Pao Ching raised his hand to touch the wounds on his chest. But Meng Liang quickly buttoned up his shirt. “Never mind me, ” Meng Liang said. “Lotus Charm is being punished. And don^ just pity her. Try to understand her. She has intelligence and wants to improve herself. If you realize that she has been a victim of the times, you can encourage her and educate her, and restore her hopes. Don’t be afraid of Chang Wen. He and his sort will be eliminated eventually. The union between him and Lotus Charm is the clash of two different forces. Look there! ” Meng Liang pointed at the water. UA fish and a rat are turning around in that whirlpool. The rat will soon be dead, but the fish will swim out of the whirlpool and live again. If Chang Wen and his sort were to survive, as the rat might have if it had sense enough, our country would be finished. If Lotus Charm is to have happiness again, then China has hope. It may not be easy for her to find happiness, but you and I must think for her, and guide her to the path of happiness. M The setting sun threw a pattern of gold on the surface of the water, lighting up a tiny whirlpool. And there Pao Ching saw the smiling image of Lotus Charm. Seaweed was floating around her face like her two little braids. He began to murmur to himself the lines from an ancient drum ballad: “Endlessly flows the river， endlessly flows the blood."
